[Hook]
Ice, melting in my chain
Pretty as my hair
Ugly as my name
Dirty as my gold
Comfy as my chair
Ugly is my name
Ugly is my name
[Verse]
No weapon formed against me shall prosper
My sword look just like Michael's
He lent it to me, this a house of God
I'm just leasing, he rent it to me
This sentence he penned it too
That's a Gmail, he sent it to me
I can send you his contact, hit him if you in combat
Hit him if you in traffic, even if there ain't no static
That's my G,
 
he got me shinin'
My hair, he made it tangled
My seed, don't need no lining
A halo fits on an angel
And if the shoe fits, I'll tie his and let the kiddie rap
Finally give the city back, and ask God for a piggy-back
Up on his shoulders I notice, I'm within earshot
I yell, "Thanks for makin' us in your image
You got a good sense of hubris"


[Produced by Flying Lotus]
[Verse 1]
I'm off the nog
, 
I'm off the Loko
I'm off that local, I'm on that global
I often had dreams of being locked in my mamas Volvo
Watching the garage burn down
, 
I'm off the codo
I'm off the top,
 
I'm off some pot
I'm off Ciroc
, 
I'm off a lot
They gave me 10 Days off
That's an awful lot
I was off campus, but the officer
Told the office, that he saw me from the parking lot
But it's all good, I'm off that
I'm just finna off his ass, off of the Ave
While rocking all black
Dip off and hide the garbage bags in the dip spot
Just to make sure that I don't get caught
Buying hella bug spray, making sure I get off
They told me go on and rock it, I told them that it's lift off
How all my homies get caught, picked off by a dick cop
Why you allowing hiccups, why you just didn't slip off?
And now I'm at the precinct, and I'm off of my square
Having a white cop beat me while he offers me squares
You gon' torture me yeah? Well that's awfully fair
All for nothing, tryna tweak me like you offering years
Bitch I ain't scared, I'm already here
Tell ya partners and ya friends, the next coffin is theirs
Guess what bitch, I'm from internal affairs
Looking for crooked cops, to tweak so I can offer 'em years
Have me tweaking, like I'm all full of fear.... alright, I'm tweaking


[Soundtrack for Chance]
Yeah, we listen to hip-hop at Rock Genius too my people! Especially when it hits this hard. Gotta admit, Rap Genius is the sole reason i was exposed to both of these game-changing artists. I remember the first time i heard Chance's 
"Favorite Song (w/ Childish Gambino)"
 and how hyped it got me. I remember the first time i heard the bass drop on Vic's 
"Yap Yap"
 and how 
i bounce like a crazy asshole every time i hear it play.
 But what stokes this old school hip-hopper the most about these records, 
is that it's a glimpse into the future of hip-hop.
 With these two talented 
(and independent)
 MC's from Chicago's Savemoney crew leading the charge

Let's start with Chance. 
The beauty of 
 is that there's so many different tracks that have imminent appeal to different sets of ears that 
all it takes is to connect with one of them before being sucked in to the entire composition.
 Chance put the mixtape up 
on his website as a free download,
 
in true independent artist fashion
 and 
has been touring the country (and world) with reckless abandon ever since.
 What sets him apart is the emotional nature of his songs. He's silly at times, zany on others, but in the end his ability to dig deep inside and FEEL and convey his (and your) emotions is sublime
He has a slew of these heartening moments, and he's more than just a lover on the record. He breaks through the chaos of social injustice in inner city Chicago to call attention to black/white issues on 
"Paranoia"
:
The point here is that Chance is a socially conscious dude and he knows how to hit home with what's on his mind. But he's also balanced and knows how to bring our spirits back up. Make no mistake about it, at it's core, 
, is a lot about drugs. Namely how these experiences have shaped his style and his mind in many ways. And Chance the jokester rears his head on 
"Smoke Again":
Again on 
"Juice"
 when he spouts the line that everyone likes to go around mimicking: 
"I got the Juice! (Juice, Juice, Juice, Juice)"
. There's a sticky quality to his flow. You wanna go around repeating 'em. You wanna chuckle when you think about missing 
"Cocoa Butter Kisses."
 And this is the sign of a dude who's in control...One who's leading a 
Chicago crew making A LOT of noise.
 But before i bring it all back home, there's another dude who's also the focus of this post

Man...it's kinda crazy to think that both of these dudes who put out the hottest independent hip-hop shit of the year are from the same city and the same crew. While there's a ton of similarities: Indie status, some common producers, collabos and 
the Black Lipped bastard himself
, it's the difference in their styles that make them a unified force
Where Chance can appeal to our soft spots, on 
,
 Vic comes to getcha from the start. 
"Orange Soda"
 opens up with a fiery hook and you know that dude means business:
This is shit that transcends our conventional notion of hip-hop. There's an aura that Vic projects that he manages to reign in with the producers he works with. 
He's so comfortable in the beat
 and he plays with well others, despite always stealing the show. Just listen to him and 
English singer Eliza Doolittle
 bouncing back and forth on 
"YNSP."
 Droppin bombs like:
I laugh at how fluent his flow is. This is some top dog shit right here. Like on 
the church choir inspired beat produced by the venerable Hit Boy on 
 closing track, we see Vic's intensity.
 The same intensity he flashes on the hook for 
"Time is Money":
That's some real shit right there. Being an underground dude, this appeases a lot my "direction of hip-hop" qualms for sure. He keeps his head about him and I just wanna hear more of it. Dude is collaborationg across the board and is even 
tabbed to tour with Disclosure in 2014. Swoon
I'll admit it...originally, the idea for this post was to just be about Chance. I've spent a lot more time with 
 this year 
(largely because it came out first).
 But the point I wanna drive home here is that together Chance and Vic are unstoppable. A homie texted me last night said Vic came out on stage during Chance's hometown show and they killed it. 
There's so much energy coming from Chicago right now on the strength of these two cats.
 It's fucking beautiful. It's what i want out of hip-hop today. 
It's Chance & Vic recognizing that versatility is the future
Mark my words, when hip-hop starts consistently 
crossing over into collaborations with electronica and rock artists,
 it's gonna change the game. Chance the Rapper & Vic Mensa are traditional MC's at their core, but they "get" the potential for this future of hip-hop and when I look into a crystal ball, I see 
them
_______________________________________________________
____________________________________
To listen to any of the albums on our countdown, 
check out our spotify playlist here
Peep the archives of all of the albums reviewed up to this point
#13 is droppin' tomorrow!


[Produced by DJ SuchNSuch]
[Intro]
Yep
Igh! igh!
Igh!
[Verse]
I got suspended, ohhhhh you got suspended
For chiefin' a hunnid blunts, 14,400 minutes
Fans all in the stands, they hands for Mr. Bennett
That racket over the net, ohhhhh give me my tennis
Shoes,
 
give me a minute, ohhhhh I can't be tardy
My class is already started, they told my mom I'm retarded
But that 10Day done in one night, Honda from a Hyundai
No tassel in the spring, but after summer I'm alumni
They took my nigga one night, and I was standing right there
An inch away from Heaven, a million songs from right here
A step away from South by, a swing away from Cali
A hook away from verses, I'm a dad away from rapping
So at the school they arrested him
Back seat, squad car, nestled in
Shouts to the bitch nigga Heselton
Wit' his Big Show body ass wrestlin'
Finna see the 10Day Pestilence, so far, so good, so special and
No stars, good jobs, or excellents
And I'm still so fucking non-echelon
Ohhhhh you got suspended, ohhhhh you not gon' finish
Ohhhhh you look familiar, ohhhhh you look like Kenneth
Damn they gon' resent it, ohhhhh you representin'
A class of bad kids, 14,400 minutes ahhhhh!
Igh! Igh! Igh! Igh! Igh! Igh! Igh! Igh!


Mixtape Cover

Cover Art - "Windows"

Cover Art - "Family"

Cover Art - "Hey Ma"



[Produced by Jake One]
[Intro]
[Verse 1]
Kicked off my shoes, tripped acid in the rain
Wore my jacket as a cape, and my umbrella as a cane
The richest man rocks the snatch-less necklace
Spineless bitches in backless dresses
Wore my feelings on my sleeveless
My weed seedless,
 
my trees leafless
I miss my diagonal grilled cheeses
And back when Mike Jackson was still Jesus
Before I believed in not believing in
Yeah, I inhaled, who believed in me not breathing in
Cigarette stained smile all covered in sin
My big homie died young; just turned older than him
I seen it happen, I seen it happen, I see it always
He still be screaming, I see his demons in empty hallways
I trip to make the fall shorter
Fall quarter was just a tall order
And I'm hungry, I'm just not that thirsty
As of late, all my verses seem not so verse-y
And all my words just mean controversy
Took the team up off my back, like "That's not your jersey?"
Stressin', pullin' my hair out, hoping I don't get picked
All this medicine in me hoping I don't get sick
Making all of this money hoping I don't get rich
Cause niggas still getting bodied for foams
[Verse 2]
Sometimes the truth don't rhyme
Sometime the lies get millions of views
Funerals for little girls, is that appealing to you?
From your cubicle desktop, what a beautiful view
I think love is beautiful, too
Building forts from broken dams, what a hoover could do
For future hoopers dead from Rugers shooting through the empty alley
Could've threw him an alley-oop, helping him do good in school
Damn that acid burn when it clean ya
I still miss being a senior
And performing at all those open mic events
Eyes closed, eyes closed seeing arenas
And I still get jealous of Vic
And Vic's still jealous of me
But if you touch my brother
All that anti-violence shit goes out the window along with you
And the rest of your team
Smoking cigarettes to look cooler
I only stop by to look through ya
And I'm only getting greedier
And I'm still Mr. Youmedia
And I still can't find Talent
And I'm still choosing classmates that wouldn't fuck
Mom still thinks I should go back to school
And Justin still thinks I'm good enough
And Mama Jan still don't take her meds
And I still be asking God to show his face
And I still be asking God to show his face
[Outro]
I am a new man, I am sanctified
Oh I am holy, I have been baptized
I have been born again, I am the White Light
Rain...rain don't go away


[Produced by Chance the Rapper & J-Emcee]
[Intro]
Growin' up in Chicago was pretty d so, there's a lot of things that I remember - 
Bo Squad,
 
goin' to Skinner School
, 
goin' to Jones College Prep
, 
uh workin' with my dad on the campaign for Barack
. No no, it was just a lot of things and I have to say goodbye to all of them 
now that I'm leaving for Washington DC
 as a lot of you guys know. So I wrote this song, it's called Beddy Bye and you'll get the gist of the song as it goes along
[Verse]
Loose stares, train fares, frooties, chews
Big bowls and loose squares
Top notch hamburger
Miracle workers, juke music and foot workers
Dude who stand outside of Old Navy crazy
We shop in Marshall Field's and never call it Macy's
Chicago to me, is the kingdom of hearts
I dance through streets where a king once marched
It's always where you finish and it's never where you start
And I can't outsmart when we move in the dark
This track is hard to listen to again
And now I'm swimmin' in thoughts of lake missin'-you-again
Chicago I'mma marry you with a ring from Jared's
A million carats of rocks the kids moved above your terrace
You were the meeting place of my parents
Now my bubbles popped like corn from Garrett's
You scared so I leave street lights as night light
Leave sky scrapers, high risers and those bright lights
I know you clouds'll cry in the morn'
So I'ma gonna leave on that midnight flight
Beddy bye, beddy bye to the C-H-I
C-H-Y I gotta tuck you in
Knowin' that there'll be no good mornin'
But I say "Beddy bye" to keep my eyes from pourin'
Cause goodnight and goodbye both hurt my throat
And it hurts to know, and it hurts to go
So sweet dreams as I head for the 
sky
But I couldn't go without saying "Beddy Bye"


Chance the Rapper's "Acid Rap" cracks the Heatseekers chart -- even though the MC's not selling the new mixtape
.
Two acts have cracked the Heatseekers chart even as their releases are also available for free.
In the case of Chance the Rapper, his much-hyped "Acid Rap" mixtape reached No. 26 on the Heatseekers chart with 800 units sold, according to Nielsen SoundScan. However, the MC hasn't made the release commercially available himself: 
while available for physical purchase on Amazon and other retailers via the label MTC, distributed by Houston, Texas' 1Stop, Chance's management tells Billboard they're not responsible.
 The rapper remains unsigned, 
and "Acid Rap" was released for free (via ChanceRaps.com)
 in part due to rights issues stemming from guest appearances and samples. 
A similarly bootleg iTunes release of the mixtape was taken down.
PARTYNEXTDOOR's
 self-titled mixtape notches an official success, however, with the retail version moving 1,600 copies and bowing at No. 6 on Heatseekers this week. As with Chance, 
the mixtape is also available for free download alongside its retail release on Drake's OVO Sound label.
Download figures for the acts' free editions were not available
. 
However, PARTYNEXTDOOR's release is a streaming hit on SoundCloud, with the track "Over Here," featuring Drake, nearly up to 900,000 plays.


Tell us in the comment section
 at the bottom of the page which show and/or festival you will be attending and if you found any information helpful or something we might have missed!


[Verse 1: Uno Hype]
I used to get a lotta love, homie knew what it was
Till' I hit em' with the strug, got a lil' buzz
Forever smoking indo, forgetting all of this info
And most of it was simple, really cause of my mental
Steadily spitting riddles
Making niggas giggle with that weak shit
You lame niggas can't see this
Cutting up like a fetus, whoa
Look into my eyes yeah they can see the hope
Can't see the whole, but it's not my destination
The top is what I'm cravin'
Success is what I bathed in
Watch they screaming praise his name dog it's amazing
All the faces changing from the bills to the haters
Get out the way homie, can you do me a favor
Leave them dudes watching as I go to the top and
They gon' stop mocking, and I'mma start plotting
Cause they mind boxed-in keep spitting
I got the flow to unlock it
No one they saw this cotton
You ain't built like that, I suggest you niggas stop it
[Hook] x4
It's the champagne pourin'
Bombay sippin', bombay sippin' bom-bombay sippin'
[Verse 2: Hassani Kwess]
Bombay
Bombay
Ha, H-Kwess
Uh, what you thought it was
Nigga started this morning out with a awful buzz
Kicks and punan
Chilling on my arm cover yo mouth when you yawn
It's nasty like ya homegirl wakin' up off the futon
Lookin' good in my ball shorts
Wearin' bangles all sorts
And yo girl got my grey Georgetown crew on
Check it at the do' ho
The Kwess be on the dolo
Hittin emcees solo put em' on the entree
What you sippin'? (Bombay)
What you tippin'? (Bombay)
A bad boy since Big but my mission Andre
We gettin' paper in case loads
Rupee yens and pesos
Euro pounds casino chips
Dippin' in my queso
Niggas come get buck wit' us
Take a girl to fuck wit' us
Kicked the beat, fucked it up
And told the beat to toughen up
Let me get em, hm
How shall I rock thee (What's ya name?)
H-Kwess from the Bombay posse
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
Screaming, "Burn it down!"
Too loud, too dank for you to turn it down
Bad bitches runnin' 'round like shirtless now
Shit's just perfect now
When it's worth it why the fuck would I get nervous now?
So shop with me on Mary
And fuck with me on Sherrif
Puttin' caramel on Garrett's
Yellin', "Fuck the Heat on Derrick"
I'm a city based n-word,
 
27's, Port's, and spirit's
Been trying to share that dinner
Can't inherit from your parents
#Igh
I was rollin' a blunt when I wrote this
I was smokin' a blunt when I spoke this
Hocus pocus, how's that for a smoke trick
Couldn't pay attention now I can afford focus
Got a lil' buzz and they got fuckin' bogus
Like how you gonna swat a flying locust?
But it's actually dope...
Acid, adderall, and adjectives
An adolescent I could fuck with?
#Igh's his fuckin'
 
ad-lib?
Burn, burn, city we built
You already forgot the names of kids that we killed
Burn, burn, it's hot as all fuck
Cause everyone got burner
Cause it's always gettin' buck
Igh
[Verse 4: Freeway]
Okay
My girl loves to party all the time
Always mad at me
Probably cause I'm always on my grind
I ain't know she swiped a million on the cards [?]
Shopping at the mall, showing off
All cause of my hard
Work, work, work, work
We grindin'
Work, work, work
We gotta
Work, work
Network to get work
Get work to network
Increase my net worth
Get on my feet first and then feed the streets
With that team early heat
And then we get that neck to work
Day in, day out
Staying in no hangin' out
In the studio like Em and Dre
Like MMA we bring em' out
Mix that, put it out
Video then radio
Then after the show make the girl get her neck to work
Main girl, ex-girl
Please em' no X pill
Yes I'm a model
Watch the exert, expert
Perform some new songs
See if I can get that to work
We shut the show down and then we get back to work
Work hard, party harder
More dough let us party longer
Overseas we party yonder
Never rap and we get this cheese
[Hook]


[Hook: The O'My's]
Living the dream ain't all it seems
Some turn fiends for the paperback greens
Truth be told, it's all I know
I'd rather go blind than lose my soul
Rather not eat if it means I can't speak
I don't lose sleep over niggas who's sweet
See this whole dream was built on cream
If it ain't about a dollar why you talking to me?
[Verse One: Chuck Inglish]
See oil's still spillin', niggas still chillin' tho
We in your house like the rock through the window
Yeah ho, and it's like that for you
And you thought that I wasn't going to mention this at all
It's about to blow and everybody's on dope
Like who hasn't died from a fuckin' overdose
Well here's a song, get on, methadone
Take the edge off, slid off, how you love that
This is how we do it, we writin' them real raps
I ain't got to worry about gettin' my chain back
Cuz niggas know I don't need to get mine snatched
And I hope when they hear this they can feel where I'm at
Like back in the day buying tapes before sacks
Macks catch a case in the face, Max pen
And it happened to some friends
They intentions were waybetter than their decisions
I'm not finished
Call every number on my phone like 'you heard that new song, that came on
It was wild, that nigga Chuck lost his mind on that line'
And it rhymed like...
[Hook: The O'My's]
[Verse Two: Chip Tha Ripper]
Twenty-Twelve is here, we all is avatars
We all be livin' large, we all got pretty broads
The whole globe is ours, we taking over the earth
You thought it was bad now, this shit is going to get worse
Cuz niggas with money too flashy, unruly
Brain washed by this life, its like a movie
Stay the realist to the end, call me young Abbie Hoffman
Hear about em all the time, we don't see em often
And he don't fit in with all them cornballs
It's going down to late to warn ya'll
This is how real niggas get down, too laid back
Cause attention is for girls, that's why she's wearing that
[Hook: The O'My's]
[Verse Three: Chance The Rapper]
Little rapper, wrap up all that trap rap bullshit
You can dancer, back up (IGH)
Damn dear prancers, don't dash for dames
Don't dip for chips, don't give up your chain
Let me flash the bang, wait and see if they buck
Let me see if they miss, if they hit me it's luck
If they touch me I quit, I'm a rapper's delight
I'm the rapper to like, a comma after the the
Got a bad appetite (IGH)
Fake food that's that shit I dislike (IGH)
Fake boobs that's that shit I did like (IGH)
She likes the mixed drinks
I like the mixed type
She got an accent
She loved the mixtape
Oh you're english?
You heard of Chuck The Rapper?
You heard of Chance The Ripper?
You wanna fuck a rapper?
Life's funny like that, like that
Make it then you bring it right back, right back
[Hook: The O'My's] (x2)
[Verse Four: Twista]
The things that people are willing to do when they want to go straight to the top
Integrity's always important regardless if you ever make it or not
I seen enough of the suffering, what will we do and amounting to nothing and
No method for kissing and hugging the babies, they hatin' instead of lovin' them
And what's up with the government, it never get better
We forever fight over cheddar, so what does it matter who running it - democrat or republican
Stay on top of your business, let nobody stop you from living the dream
Try to be careful about what you do because nothing is as good as it seems
Out of the dark, steppin up hard into the light
Whatever's wrong you can do right, Going against everybody in spite
Lovin' the thoughts they might be having about you not bein' able to come with it on em
...until you shitted on em
Enemies finna face defeat, so they finna hate me
Came through in the place to be in a Benz, Mercedes
They way I spit I'm laced with heat so they imitate me
Flow over interracial beats
 - 
Blended Babies


[Produced by Peter Cottontale]
[Verse 1]
Here’s a tab of acid for your ear
You’re the plastic, I’m the passion and the magic in the air
The flabbergasted avalanche of ambulances near
The labyrinth of Pan’s Lab is adamantly here
No assignments, book of rhyming and I’m drawing doodles
I should rhyme rhyme with Ramen Noodles
Ramadan
, 
I’m the don of the diamond jewels
Fond of finding a way to kindly tell these toddlers toodles
I’m a kamikaze and I’m a kinda cuckoo
I could write a fucking book, non kamasutral
You niggas goofies, it's a conflict that is kinda crucial
Caught you on the 9 in all blue yelling I’ma neutral
But I’ma let the bull pass like matadors
Versus a Minotaur, verse is a metaphor
A metamorphoses and I’ma fuckin animorph
I used to go to school with Anna Fedele & Danny Whorf
Remember I used to bang with the bad ones
'til my grandmama told on her grandson
Mama said that I was way too handsome
To be throwing the hand’s son”
Breaking Walls like Samson
But I’ma throw a tantrum
'til I’m on Every Samsung
Sanyo, and Handheld and Handgun
Please put ya lighter’s up 'til life is up and light it up
And slice a cut, the night is young, it’s nice enough
The nicest blunt, the nicest stuff
My niggas out here trapping a lot
I know you think you on
Hiding Reggie sacks in your socks
I hang with niggas, whole jab in the jock
.4’s for 15, yea my niggas we be taxing a lot
Only to goofies tho, choking on a doobie though
My eyes do be low, two be rolled
Remember days of the Rufio
Remember the Days of Chan-Man and the Skeeter Man
Brrrang Dang to Lil' B
And Bang a Rang to Peter Pan
[Hook]
I burned too many Brain Cells down
To be worried bout my Brain Cells Now
 (4X)
[Verse 2]
Light a joint, or spliff it if you classy
Split a swisha witcha nigga
If you ask me
Ain’t no questions hit it vividly and pass me
Don’t answer about your problems
Or your issues or your Ashleys
It’s a quarter to imminent, ten minutes to infinite
Rims, Henny, and reminisce
Nostalgia and M&M's
Cinnamon tone women and
Feminine’s getting intimate
All broads is frivolous
Homies could get they dividends
Is he illiterate, literal syndicate
Illegitimate, idiot, gangbanger affiliate
Sick twisted prick, sick sadistic son of a biscuit
Man fuck this shit
[Hook]


Screaming Burn It down!
Too Loud, Too dank, for you to turn it down
Bad bitches running round like shirtless now
Shits just Perfect Now
When it's worth it why the fuck would I get nervous now
So Shop with me on Mary
And Fuck with me on Sherrif
Puttin Caramel On garretts
Yellin "Fuck The Heat On Derrick"
I'm a city based N-word
27's, Port's and Spirit's
Been trying to Share that dinner
Can't Inherit from your Parents
#Igh
I was rollin a blunt when I wrote this
I was smoking a blunt when I spoke this
Hocus Pocus
Hows that for a smoke trick
Couldn't pay attention
Now I can afford focus
Got a lil Buzz and they got fuckin bogus
Like How you swat a flying locust?
But it's actually dope...
Acid, adderol and adjectives
An Adolescent I could fuck with?
#Igh's his fuckin Ad-lib?
Burn Burn
City we built
You already forgot the names
Of kids that we killed
Burn Burn
It's Hot as all fuck
Cause everyone got burner
Cause it's always gettin buck
#Igh


[Produced by Nate Fox]
[Hook]
Still a chain smoking
Name dropping
Good looking
Muh' fucking
Motha, shut your mouth
Brain broken
Frank Ocean listening
Stain hitting, satin woodgrain gripping
Paint dripping
Motha, shut your mouth
[Verse 1]
Somebody pray for the god, oh lord
I wonder what Michael's on
Son jammin' to his shit
Rappin' trappin' trippin' 'cid
And sniffing glue and chewing Vicodin
Shoulda died- yelling YOLO was a lie
And you a liar wonder why you wanna die so young
You and I look just alike
And I'm afraid that this one right here
Might be last time that I write a song
Lot of niggas wanna go out with a bang
But I ain't tryna go out at all
So I ain’t tryna go out at all
Got a lot of ideas still to throw out the door
Last chance joint gotta be a dance joint
From an introspective drugged out standpoint
Throw bands joint, wanna hold hands joint
Old school for my own old man joint
[Hook]
[
Bridge
]
This part right here, right now
Right here, this part my shit
I play this so loud in the car
I forget to park my whip
I lean back, then spark my shit
I turn up, I talk my shit
Hope you love all of my shit
I hope you love all of my shit
 
(IGH)
[Verse 2]
Why toss my filter when she saved my life?
The same shit that kills us, always taste so right
That's why I pray to the dear lord
God know who he be
Truth be told he juiced me
Introduced me to the lucy leaf
Oh oh oh, I seen the light, I lost my lighter
Bic flick, kick the habit and the bucket, fuck your supplier
Lies, Levis on fire
Flyer on the wall I'm brighter
In the darkness of the night
In the sky I get higher, higher
[Hook]
[Bridge]
[Hook]


At a passing glance of a Tumblr timeline it'd be easy to mistake Chicago
's Chance the Rapper for any number of new jack blog-savvy revivalist rappers struggling their way around high-pitched Pharcyde chatter and "93 Til Infinity" instrumentals. And certainly the production on Acid Rap, with its sampled nods to 
J Dilla
 and 
Tribe Called Quest,
 leans towards that sort of single-minded throwback. But as a rapper, 
Chance's nostalgia
 is immersive, not constructed. It's telling that he openly cites the influence of 
under-heralded West Coast crew Freestyle Fellowship,
 a collective that emphasized perpetual stylistic reinvention on a micro level (and provided the big bang for both Pharcyde and Souls of Mischief's elastic flows). 
So where the A$APs of today pick up hand-me-down and watered down cadences and beat at them repeatedly and the Joey Badasses struggle through existing patterns that are usually far above their competency level,
 Chance is going back to the point of origin and rebuilding the old styles from scratch. Every track here is kicked in a different cadence—usually jazzy and always frantic—and it's striking to hear that model applied by a young rapper whose 
raw foundational material is Kanye and Eminem.
 He's using the same toolbox as the greats but drawing on very different blueprints.
Chance's writing takes a similarly expansive approach to history. For a 20-year-old, Chance's point of view is oddly melancholic and sentimental, but this perspective only strengthens his narratives. He writes with a vivid sensory memory—you can smell the blunt guts or hear the fireworks and mistake them for gunfire in his words. It's a paradoxically level-headed approach on an album where the performance is so unhinged and 
the second line is "the acid made me crazy."
 But maybe the title—and Chance's whole Woody Woodpecker meltdown rap style—is a bit of a misdirect. Acid Rap isn't about the trip, it's about the flashbacks. —
Andrew Nosnitsky



I'm sitting in a booth at Lou Malnati's Pizzeria in Chicago with Chance the Rapper's manager, Pat. 
He's got a rugby-player build and shoulder-length blond hair.
 He orders a Shirley Temple, which arrives, minutes later, filled to the brim with glistening maraschino cherries. Chance walks in. He moves like a mixture of clown and robot. 
Duck-footed in bright red Adidas sneakers, he's jerky and just a little too aware of his movements.
 His rail-thin girlfriend, Kirsten, trails him. His first statement 'on the record' is screamed into the Dictaphone: “Fuckballs!”
It's weird to think that the awkward youth before me has earned high praise from the top tiers of the Music Industry. 
In three days he will embark on a 40-date US tour with Mac Miller
 followed by a 23-date European tour with Macklemore and Ryan Lewis. His Lollapalooza after-party sold out in 47 minutes, the fastest sellout for one of Chicago's premier hip-hop venues, Reggies.
"The dopest feature on 
 is probably Twista," he tells me when I ask him which artists he admires.
 "We had a little show at a shoe store, and when I got there, Twista was performing. I had to go on next and when we were passing by he was like, 'You killin' it right now!' And I was like, 'Oh my God - you're Twista!' After the show he was telling me he listened to my shit 
and he was talking about how he knew 'Brain Cells' word for word
, and all my old shit. When me and Vic [Mensa] were working on that 'Cocoa Butter Kisses' track, I was like, 'You know who would be raw as hell on this song? Twista.' I called him and he was like, 'Send it right now.' It was crazy because he was really into it, like, 'Can you hear what I'm saying in this verse? Can you get the verse? Do you like this one part? Should I change this? Is it good enough?' Like, what bro? You're Twista! It's A-OK with me."
"I do think that there's some sort of structure in the way that everything is," he says regarding the events that led him to this point in his career. "I feel like we're very in control of our own destiny, but I don't know if that necessarily means that we're loose in the world or there's nothing controlling us. What are the chances that this kid named Chance, who graduated from high School with a 1.3 GPA...I've seen some really crazy shit happen. I've been a part of some really crazy shit and am still a part of some really crazy shit. I don't know if I could that it's all up to Chance."
Wait -- "'Chance' or 'chance'?"
"That it's all up to me. I feel like there's gotta be something — somebody — somewhere putting people in the same room as me or putting J. Cole in the same elevator as me, making me say, ‘Alright, I’ll go here.’ Don’t you ever have that intuition moment of, like, a sixth sense telling you to go somewhere?”
My stomach grumbles and our cheese sticks arrive. Our waiter (whom Chance likens to the bad guy in the first 
 movie and therefore dubs 'Scumbag') brings over some ketchup. 
"I'm a ketchup and cheese stick guy," he says with a grin, squirting a red mound onto his plate.
“Most of the shit that happened for 
 was in the last three or three-and-a-half weeks before the tape dropped. Those last few weeks I was like, ‘Oh shit! I have a tape that’s supposed to drop in less than a month! I have to finish all of it now,’ so I just stayed in the studio, like, every day. It takes me a long time to write — sometimes six or seven hours to write a verse. I spend so much time scratching shit out and stuff, but I also have really bad ADD so I can’t pay attention to shit for too long. I used to be prescribed Adderall, but I never used it.”
Chance is definitely easily distracted. He reads Twitter throughout our interview, scrolling constantly as we talk.I sneak a peek at the screen, and texts are coming in from J.Cole (in extra-large font because Chance "can't fucking see at all.") The two are making plans to hang out later, but then his phone dies so he tells me about the first album he got into.
“Kanye is the reason I make rap music. The College Dropout was the first album I ever owned — the first piece of music that was mine, that my mom bought for me and gave to me.
 I've never been to a Kanye concert. I had tickets twice, but I missed both of ’em. Both times I got in trouble. I used to be in a lot of trouble when I was a kid.”
That wasn't so long ago. 
Chance the Rapper came up with his mixtape, 
, when he was suspended for ten days in his senior year of high school
 
after being caught smoking weed in the school parking lot.
 So really, all that troublemaking might have been for the best. What kinds of mischief did her get up to while creating 
"I did 'Chain Smoker' and 'Lost' on acid," he admits.
 
"I never wanted it to be like 'I'm a good rapper because I do acid'. I was going through something at the time and I feel the music is supposed to document who the
 artist is as a person, and their outlook on life at that moment."
If we dropped acid together, he says we'd listen to James Blake and Hiatus Kaiyote.
 We'd also listen to 
 while he'd "point out all the crazy things that you never noticed about it, and all the weird things that I put under the track, like the little subliminal messages. I'm telling kids to kill their parents!" He's joking, I hope.
“What sucks is that when you’re an artist and you get known, more people know you for your music and know you for a certain aesthetic, and the world kind of pushes that on you. So, every time I meet people they only want to talk to me about acid or they want to give me some free acid. It’s cool when you first get into it, but then you kind of realise over time it’s not necessarily who you are. It might be something you do, but it’s not at all who you are.”
He stops and stares at the piece of pizza on his fork. I ask if something's wrong. "Yeah, the tomato was looking weird. I was thinking about whether or not I was...Thank you," he says, and eats it anyway.
"I think I've kinda gotten to a point in my life where I'm happy a lot without dropping Acid," he says. 
I ask if it has anything to do with his girlfriend Kirsten, whom his song 'Interlude (That's Love)' was written for.
 Chance says they've been dating for "years and years and years"; Pat says six months. "Tomato, tomahto," Chance replies. "A week and a half. No, I'll stop making joke." Kirsten changes the subject to shaving her legs and Pat recommends laser hair removal.
"I might do it to my pubes," Chance declares. "I got, like, some serious problems going on with entanglement...I thought that was funny. As it came out of my mouth it sounded grosser and grosser." He picks up a pen to sign the bill, but instead stops and shouts, "I don't sign autographs!"


[Steve G. Lover]
Get it from behind, I'mma need to back off
And I want face like a nigga took bathsalts
Ready here I go, hear me when I'm talking
Flyest nigga flying, realist nigga walking
(?) at the drive in
Bitches on my leg, got bitchest on my noggin
We gonna dive in like we deep sea diving
My girl, she chocolate, I love 'em all chocolate
I you know you know a nigga rock it
Money on my mind plus a little in my pocket
LA, I be out there on the seaside
Making waves nigga, chiling on the Eastside
Niggas all talk, niggas gotta rewind
Young Steve got shades I don't see time
So I'm late, CPT, see me yeah, see where a nigga be
[Chance The Rapper]
I'm in my tank top, and my shoes so stylish
On the road with Childish, off the top it's kinda freestylish
I need an island and a private
Jet to take me where I need to be
Off the top, I'm like TNT
Everytime I rap, I gotta blow up
Sometimes I'm late for soundcheck, I don't show up
Sometimes, all these hoes, just wanna blow 'em
My cellphone call me like one time, like two times
I'm off of the top, I got two rhymes
One, two ryhmes, say it twice though
Off the top I'm nice though
Got a white tee and a white ho
And a black (?) off of the top I'm kinda naughty
Or nauseous, cause I drank all of that coffee
Before I came out, I'm feeling like I'm too raw
I'm off of the top, I got two (?)
And two cups, call me 2 Chainz
Call me Batman, better yet call me Bruce Wayne
Call me Liu Kang, I kick it
Off of the top, tryna catch a snitch like Quidditch
Hit with it, off of the top, just stitch it
Like Lilo and Stitch did, back in '02 when I saw them at the movies...


[Produced by XXYYXX and Dae One]
[Verse 1: SZA]
Ripping the heads off all my Barbie dolls
Toss them to the side, give them convertibles
Click vroom, I like the way it rides up
Ken had it all, Skipper wanted more than
Watching from the sidelines, wish that she had it
She wish that she had it
Here in your backyard, building a fantasy
Fuck reality, do you want to know, know me
Do you want to know me?
Stuck in Nintendo, you're the controller
 and such
I yelled finish him
(Down goes Frazier)
I yelled, finish him
Come Desdemona
Othello the tragedies
Shakespearean sorrows
Where do I begin?
Where do we begin?
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
I got L's on my record
Weed on the vinyl
Keys open doors when them keys is albino
Now knock on my door
 
when my stars is a Lionel
I've been fishing for a minute for a minnow
Only I know that a pawn is a trade
And a rookie for a castle like tuition for a final
Playing hooky for a tassel, spend a minute on the minor
Winds on my window
Ash on my skin, when the record low temps for the wind blow
Only write rhythm to the tardiest of tempos
Only ride shotgun when the car is a limo
Y'ar see
I crowd surf in a cypher
Scuba in my shower,
 
take an Uber to my neighbors
Used to pay the piper, till peter picked it better
Now the first thing you should tell is where the hell is all the paper
But memories keep coming back
All the nights that we used to laugh
Wanna know how I used to was, how I used to was
[Outro: SZA and Chance the Rapper] (x5)
Memories keep playing back, all the nights we used to love
Just wondering how we used to was, how we used to was


1. 
Good Ass Intro (feat. BJ The Chicago Kid)
2. 
Pusha Man/Paranoia (feat. Lily K & Nate Fox)
3. 
Cocoa Butter Kisses (feat. Vic Mensa & Twista)
4. 
JUICE
5. 
Lost (feat. Noname Gypsy)
6. 
Everybody’s Something (feat. BJ The Chicago Kid & Saba)
7. 
Interlude (That’s Love)
8. 
Favorite Song (feat. Childish Gambino)
9. 
NaNa (feat. Action Bronson)
10. 
Smoke Again (feat. Ab-Soul)
11. 
Acid Rain
12. 
Chain Smoker
13. 
Everything’s Good (Good Ass Outro)


[Verse 1: Sulaiman]
What don't kill me only make me stronger
Struggling and striving, got simultaneous timing
They saying, they're saying that life's a bitch, but I'm trying to break the hymen
High as heaven, but reverend, why ain't heaven high as I am?
Saving this elevation, but I ain't into the climbing
I levitate with the [?], [?] persona
Feeling like marijuana, take half the breath that I conjur and wisdom the other product
Still if something about it, then let me know that I got it
The flow of a life aquatic so...
[Hook: Lili K.]
Excuse me Mister So-and-so, get up out my way
I have dreams to make reality, I have no time to play
The cost of living is so high, I now take off my gloves
Cause there's talent in my fingertips, so won't you show some love?
[Bridge: Sulaiman]
Excuse me everybody, but I hope you're not offended
I'm just trying to make some money off this musical ambition
Plus I need some paper, because of how high the rent is
So move to this music that I know you all are feeling
X2
[Verse 2: Lili K.]
Playgrounds filled with gifted minds, our dreams go down the slides
Pushed off the swing by Mister Man, fitted in suit and tie
Corporate boss, creative loss, music down the drain
These 9 to 5's are killing me, why do you put them in my way?
The high cost of life costs more than just that cash
You gave me a life sentence I'm struggling to outlast
With bus fare and health care, what am I to do?
In this battle of reality afraid to make my dreams come true
[Hook]
[Bridge]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Don't give in, nah, don't give up
Don't get involved, just give us all
Lil' rythym rock, a lil' pistol talk
Trap rap make shit to fall in love with
My pockets thin, my socks I rock for 9 maybe 10 days straight
Amazing gracing y'all, [?] my shoes
[?] look to big on Paul Bunyon's feet
Jump jump, lil' fam lil' mayor
You're putting hot lunch in my hand god damn
I never thought you'd sing all them words I was saying
Used to couldn't read my handwriting from a pen
Used to get tú, getting used to usted
Used to boost Boost Mobile phones with my friends
Now I'm so boost I could boost up your ends
Just back your caboose and put your boots in the air
IGH!


01.  The Library (Intro)
02.  I. Crawl
03.  II. worldstar
04.  Dial Up
05.  I. The worst guys
 
(feat. Chance the Rapper)
06.  II. shadows
07.  III. telegraph ave. ("Oakland" by Lloyd)
08.  IV. sweatpants
09.  V. 3005
10.  Playing Around Before the Party Starts
11.  I. The Party
12.  II. no exit
13.  Death By Numbers
14.  I. Flight of the Navigator
15.  II. zealots of stockholm (free information)
16.  III. urn
17.  I. pink toes (feat. Jhene Aiko)
18. II. earth: the oldest computer (The last night) 
[feat. Azealia Banks]
19.  life: the biggest troll (andrew auernheimer)


FADE IN
INT. DONALD'S ROOM. - MORNING
DONALD is woken by a knock on his window from an 
unknown GIRL
GIRL
Phone
DONALD looks over through the window, sits up, puts on his shirt, and walks out to the phone
DONALD
(into phone)
Hello?
WOMAN (V.O)
Hello, who's this?
DONALD
(a beat)
You called me
WOMAN (V.O)
This is the Callifax Collection Company. Who am I speaking with?
DONALD
I know who you're looking for; he's not here
WOMAN(V.O)
Do you know where he can be reached?
DONALD
What month is it?
WOMAN (V.O.)
Uh, it is June I believe
DONALD
Then he's probably in the Northern Hemisphere somewhere
CUT TO:
INT. KITCHEN - DAY
DONALD fixes himself some cereal and grabs a bottle of San Pelligrino out of the fridge
When leaving, we see that MISLA, STEFAN, and EMILY are sitting eating cereal, too
EMILY
Fam was just yelling, "Yo, this is Connect Four, not chess"
STEFAN throws up on the floor
, and the two girls stop talking and look at him
CUT TO:
EXT. POOL AREA - MORNING
DONALD crosses to 
FAM
, sitting on the edge of the outdoor couch, using his computer
DONALD
Your girl
 woke me up
FAM
Who?
DONALD
Your girl
FAM
I don't have a girl here. It might be 
Swank
's
DONALD
Anybody coming in today?
FAM
I don't know. Eighty Five might roll through
An airplane flies overhead
DONALD
I love airplanes
FAM
My daddy, he had me on an airplane
DONALD
He had you on an airplane?
FAM
It's like that weird Bill Cosby episode where-
DONALD
--With the Muppets?
FAM
He gave birth to sandwiches
DONALD
--Sandwiches and an orange soda, yeah
FAM
Yeah but that was me on an airplane. It was weird
DONALD
That's like...what’s the one with Arnold Schwarzenegger?
FAM
Oh yeah, with Danny Devito?
DONALD
Nah, that's "Twins"
FAM
Classics, regardless
DONALD
The one with the guy where he's pregnant
FAM
"Baby Mama"?
DONALD
Nah, man. It's called uh...fuck!
FAM
"Kindergarten Cop" with Gary Coleman?
DONALD
"Junior."
FAM
"Junior." That's really good
CUT TO:
INT. HOUSE - MORNING
DONALD walks up to a Buddha statue and lights incense,
 
and then inhales from his Pax vaporizer
CUT TO:
INT. PRODUCTION ROOM. - LATE MORNING
DONALD and 
LUDWIG
 
are sitting and making beats.
 
Donald is playing with his Pax
 and 
humming
LUDWIG
You think we're gonna use that uh, that other song you did?
DONALD
Which one?
LUDWIG
The one with the slow 80's sound
DONALD
(mimicking the sound)
I don't know. Play it
LUDWIG
I don't have it
DONALD plays said beat.
 
They both begin nodding their heads to it
DONALD
I like that. We could something that's like
(Hums another beat sound)
Cause no one raps over that
Behind them, a knock on the window from outside is heard. It is the same unknown GIRL from before
GIRL
Your brother wants you
DONALD turns to LUDWIG questioningly
DONALD
Do you know her?
LUDWIG shakes his head
, and DONALD gets up
CUT TO:
STAIRCASE
DONALD dribbles a basketball up the stairs into STEVE's room, and throws the ball downstairs once he 
reaches the top
STEVE, 
SWANK
, and 
MISLA
 are talking and playing 
DONALD
Your room is disgusting
SWANK
It's not...that crazy
STEVE
That's debatable
But yo, Misla swears she's seen more vaginas than me. In 
MISLA
Listen, I am a woman. I am in locker rooms, in like gyms, whatever. I see naked women all the time
. Forever, too. Not just since puberty
SWANK
Before puberty have been 
searching for naked women and I'm here now and that's all I do
STEVE
You gotta point. 'Boutta say man, how many vaginas have you accidentally seen?
SWANK
Wait, me?
STEVE
Both
SWANK
It's never been an accident
MISLA
It's not an accident for me either
DONALD
What??
The others laugh
STEVE
That's even weirder
DONALD
(To STEVE)
You sent your girl down there for this?
STEVE
I didn't send a girl
DONALD
Swank?
SWANK
Not me. I'm looking for new girls
SWANK
You got girls, downstairs?
MISLA
Of course it's not my girl. Why would I bring girls here?
SWANK
Yeah, Misla never brings girls for anybody
STEVE laughs, and 
MISLA throws something at SWANK
DONALD walks out
STEVE
(to DONALD)
Yo, if that girl's cute, tell her to come upstairs, though
EXT. LAWN. -- DAY
MISLA is wearing traditional karate garb, practicing her forms on the grass
She does a short routine and bows
CUT TO:
EXT. POOL AREA - MORNING
LUDWIG is playing on his guitar. He plays for a short while
.
CUT TO:
EXT. POOL - MORNING
DONALD is leaning over the side to talk to EMILY who is swimming
DONALD
What did you think of track seven?
EMILY
I don't know. It was okay. I don’t know about the second one though. It wasn't scary enough
DONALD
What do you mean scary? It wasn't scary enough?
EMILY
You're not scary
DONALD
I'm pretty scary. I can be scary when I wanna
EMILY
Try
DONALD pushes EMILY's head underwater
DONALD
Totally scary
She comes back up and spits water on him
DONALD
Totally missed
EMILY splashes him
DONALD
Alright
DONALD pauses, and backs up, off screen
He runs, and jumps into the water.
 EMILY screams
DONALD
My phone's in my pocket!
CUT TO:
INT. HOUSE (
) - DAY
An unknown person walks in and steps out of his shoes
He kicks them off onto a sea of other shoes
CUT TO:
INT. PRODUCTION ROOM - DAY
DONALD is demoing a song to a few others. They are listening along and the power goes out
DONALD
Oh shit
TRINIDAD JAMES
That was tight
DONALD
The power went out
STEFAN
It was too turnt up
CUT TO:
INT. REC. ROOM - DAY
CHANCE and TRINIDAD JAMES are playing a quiet game of Connect Four
CHANCE
(In a 
)
This decision is pivotal
CHANCE places a piece into the game, and TRINIDAD JAMES does the same, 
TRINIDAD JAMES
Thanks
CHANCE
God damnit, did I just tweak? I just did it
TRINIDAD JAMES places his winning piece, and CHANCE observes
CHANCE
God damnit!
CHANCE screams and walks away. TRINIDAD JAMES laughs
CUT TO:
EXT. LAWN. - DAY
CHANCE and DONALD are having a push-up contest
STEVE and TRINIDAD JAMES are watching
CHANCE
You're old, Donald
DONALD
You're homeless. I can do this all day. I feel great. I'm getting an erection. Oh man, I'm so hard
STEVE
Stained. I can see it
TRINIDAD JAMES
I feel like Chance's hat might pop off
CHANCE
These are hat on pushups
.
DONALD
Go all the way down when someone makes you do pushups
CHANCE falls over, exhausted
DONALD screams at CHANCE in victory
CUT TO:
EXT. PATIO - DAY
Donald is DJing 
Kyle's song "Fruitsnacks"
, 
STEFAN
 is dancing behind him
STEFAN waves at the mysterious GIRL
DONALD stops DJing and turns to STEFAN, who is still dancing even with the absence of music
DONALD
Do you know her?
STEFAN
No
DONALD
Then why'd you wave?
STEFAN
I'm a gentleman
CUT TO:
INT. LEMON TREE GARDEN - AFTERNOON
DONALD is sitting against a tree and holding the lemons that DANIELLE picks and hands to him
DANIELLE
I've had the most strangely reoccurring dreams over the last week. And uh, it's like of my wedding, but nothing is going right. Everything's a disaster. My guests are all there, it's all of my real life friends. They all look gorgeous. They're all like fully done up in their gowns that they're probably going to wear to the wedding, my family is there. But suddenly I realize I should've been married by now, and I'm not married, I'm not in my wedding dress. I'm all alone, in this giant area where I see my guests being served their cocktail appetizers off of paper plates. Everyone seems to be having a great time, but they're eating off of paper plates. But I am wearing cargo pants. Army cargo pants
DONALD
Like Old Navy?
DANIELLE
Yeah, exactly. Like Old Navy cargo pants. I don't own Old Navy cargo pants. I'm not even sure where that came from in my head, but I'm wearing that with a T shirt and I'm supposed to be getting married. My hair's not done, my makeup's not done. And my mom comes in and asks me, "Why aren't you getting ready for your wedding?" And I'm like "Oh, I will be, I will be" but suddenly I'm smoking a cigarette, I even don't know why I'm smoking a cigarette, but in my mind I also that I'm three or four weeks pregnant. Horrible, right? So I tell my mom, "Mom, you don't know this, but I'm three or four weeks pregnant" and she says not "Put down the cigarette", she says, "Maybe you should get into your wedding dress". It's all very, very weird. I'm not sure what it means at all
DONALD
I think we have too many lemons
DANIELLE
One more?
DONALD
Yeah
DANIELLE
And these two
DONALD
Yeah, some of them. That'll be enough
DANIELLE
We can make guacamole
CUT TO:
INT. PIANO ROOM / EXT. POOL - DUSK
STEFAN is playing the piano. His music transitions to:
The legs of an unknown person balancing and walking along the edge of the pool
CUT TO:
A MONTAGE:
A group of people are dancing around speakers. Assumingly, music is playing, but the events of that scene are muted
, and replaced by the dialogue of...
INT. MOVIE ROOM. - NIGHT
DONALD and FLYING LOTUS are exchanging verses they've written
FLYING LOTUS
Investing time on writing lies
, 
slightly truth without a clue
I met my higher self
, 
pissing off the roofs of drunken goofs
He said "keep the mic smelly like a rotten tooth"
And all your fears forgotten when the Cap is in the booth
I'm an angel in an agony of flame
Feathers growing at the mention of my name, reinvention of my shame
I'm a slave to the darkness of my innermost cave
And all these words I hold tighter than a glowstick at a rave, nigga
Dance around the camp fire, buttnaked, blowing trees
Could give a single fuck if somebody sees, I'm free
Red "V"
 
bleed out a scarlet letter
, 
kill a king
And I'll sitting ready for whatever weather the seasons sing
Picking up expensive habits,
 
chasing after little rabbits
Hope they lead me to a place of magic
Sad at all the times I never thought I had it
Losing all these memories, and y'all doubt it matters...
Patterns
DONALD
Mouth to a Pellegrino, bottle color of envy
Who the fuck is Gambino
, I hand a waitress a benji
To act like she never met me
, I'm saying though
They want the game changed when your shit on the radio
Fruit was so hanging low, I didn't even bother
She tryna land Obama's, man she get it from her mama
I don't blame her, I tame her, give her something to visualize
On my couch watching DVR'd "American Dad"
Man those new Celine bags are so to die for
I'm in that Porsche on Prozac, them suicide doors
Watch her walk as the death becomes her
Cause Mrs. Tarantino kill bills, no wonder
My heaven is the present, so maybe this is it
.
Pray to God every night to make me believe he exists
Drink a fifth of vodka, I don't need no sponsor
,
Heard a preacher holler, make him hold these souls
And that's when like the hook...
FLYING LOTUS
Yeah that's tight. I like that
You know you got a little...
He points to DONALD's nose, and DONALD touches it to find blood dripping
DONALD
Oh shit
FLYING LOTUS
Yeah
DONALD gets up, and runs to the bathroom
FLYING LOTUS(CONT'D)
Wow
CUT TO:
INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT
DONALD examines his nose in the mirror, surprised by the bleeding
He looks for the source of all the blood, and notices and obstruction in his nasal passage- it's a string
Nauseated and scared, he pulls the long, blood soaked string while gagging and coughing. Finally, he dislodges the string and what is attached at the end, a golden tooth
He places it next to the sink and washes his hands, as the sound of the running water transitions into a similar sound of the shower water as DONALD now sits in the shower
He is still, and his back is to us
CUT TO:
EXT. POOL AREA - NIGHT
DONALD and FAM are sitting next to a bonfire
, 
eating s'mores
 
and
 
swapping childhood stories
FAM
I remember being seventeen, being scared as hell. Getting prank calls, like crazy stuff. Just like senior year in high school. Had a lot of girls, it's crazy. So, this one girl, she was super crazy, she would call my phone from a blocked number, and it was her. But then I started getting like the crazy death threats.
 Started as a joke, then They knew what kind of car I was driving, where I liked to hang out. Then they started shooting in the area, so I couldn't sleep at home anymore. Went and got a gun from my friend. Started sleeping on the street for a week. The scariest thing about it all though, is having a gun knowing you might have to use it. scarier than than killing somebody is thinking about killing somebody. 
Sometimes you can't explain why things happen
. Those seven days, man, just couldn't handle it. Just couldn't handle it. You just get to that point like why did I get here? Sometimes they just do
DONALD
When I was like five or six, we were living in Decatur, in the projects. In Commons Drop. It's nice now, but like we were living there and I remember my mom's friend. Like a friend of the family. This kid like... Something happened, I didn't understand it but 
he had to stay with us for a couple of day
. I didn't really understand it. But we didn't have any space. So he had to sleep in my bed. I remember in the morning waking up and he was like 
"Let's rub butts"
. I was like "okay" like whatever I did it. And I didn't really get it. And then I turned, when we turned he kissed me
FAM
He kissed you?
DONALD
Yeah. Like you said, I don't know why it happened. I don't know why it happened
FAM
Did anybody like know about this?
DONALD
Nah, just him
FAM
That's wild
DONALD
It's crazy
FAM
Like I said, sometimes you just can't explain things
DONALD
I'm gonna go inside
FAM
Alright, I gonna stay out here, man
DONALD begins to walk inside as we...
CUT TO:
HALLWAY
DONALD is walking to his room, as the GIRL passes him in the opposite direction
He turns, quizzically
DONALD
Who are you?
She doesn't respond, or even look at him, and keeps walking. Donald continues walking to his room
CUT TO:
INT. DONALD'S ROOM. - NIGHT
He is flying face up, eyes closed. The phone rings and he opens his eyes
He leans over and picks up the phone
WOMAN (V.O.)
Hello, who's this?
DONALD immediately hangs up
, looks down for a moment, and takes off his sweatshirt and shirt
He lies down and falls back asleep
FADE OUT


[Produced by Skrillex]
[Intro]
Ayo Peter!
[
Verse
 1]
What are the odds we'd even meet?
What does it mean? It's meant to be
Why hug a wall? Why hold a seat?
Not for nothin' but it ain't nothin' for us to dip out this club right now
Shhh, I think the coast is clear, let's go
Leave our coats and beers, let's go
Leave your girlfriends here, let's go
Leave your hopes and fears, let's go
What you scared for?
Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go
[Hook x3]
What's your interest are? Who you be with?
Can I ask a question? Can you keep a secret?
I don't really give a what! What I need to know is
Do you wanna fuck? Do you wanna fuck?
Do you wanna fuck? Do you wanna fuck?
(Let's blow this popsicle stand)
[Verse 1] + [Hook x3]
[Bridge]
Dance like it hurts to stand still
[Hook x2]


[Prod. by Cam & Peter Cottontale]
[Hook 1: Chance the 
Ra
pper] (x2)
Cigarettes on cigarettes, my mama think I stank
I got burn holes in my hoodies, all my homies think it's dank
I miss my cocoa butter kisses
I miss my cocoa butter kisses
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Okie dokie, alky, keep it lowkey like Thor lil bro
Or he'll go blow the loudy, saudy of sour Saudi
Wiley up off peyote, wilding like that coyote
If I sip any Henny, my belly just might be outie
Pull up inside a huggy, Starsky & Hutch a dougie
I just opened up the pack in an hour I'll ash my lucky
Tonight she just yelling, "fuck me," two weeks she'll be yelling fuck me
Used to like orange cassette tapes with Timmy, Tommy, and Chuckie
And Chuck E. Cheese's pizzas,
 
Jesus pieces, sing Jesus love me
Put Visine inside my eyes so my grandma would fucking hug me
Oh generation above me, I know you still remember me
My afro look just like daddy's, y'all taught me how to go hunting (BLAM!)
[Hook 1 x2]
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
(Innanet)
I will smoke a little something but I don't inhale
Everywhere that I go, everywhere they be asking hows it going
Say the goings well,
 
go figure, Victor's light skinned
Jesus got me feeling like Colin Powell,
 
all praise to the God
God knows he's a pro,
 
he's a pro like COINTEL
Check, check mate, check me take me to the bedroom, let you know me well
I mean normally, you see Norma Jean wouldn't kick it with Farmer Phil
But these kids these days, they get so high, burn trees, smoke chlorophyll
'Til they can't feel shit, shit-faced, faced it, 15 hits on this L
Elevated, train, and the craziest thing
Got me feeling like Lauryn Hill, miseducated,
 
my dick delegated
Rap Bill Bellamy,
 
they said I shoulda never made it
Probably shoulda been dead or in jail
Deadbeat dad, enough of that jazz
Asshole, absynthe up in that glass
Are we there yet? Ice cubes in a bong
Rip, brain dead, take a tug and then pass
[Bridge]
I think we all addicted
Yeah, I think we all addicted
Really though, I think we all addicted
I think we all addicted
[Hook 2: Vic Mensa]
Cigarettes on cigarettes, my momma think I stank
I got burn holes in my memories, my homies think it's dank
I miss my cocoa butter kisses
I think we all addicted
[Hook 1]
[Verse 3: Twista]
I could make a flow, pitter patter with a patter pitter - juicy
Used to be in a jalabiya and a kufi
Trying hard not to be addicted to a groupie
I ended up on an album cover in a Coogi
You see, I be still a God but a goofy
You be flowing about drugs and a Uzi
That's the new principle, sometimes I'mma be about some hoes
Sometimes I'mma wanna make a movie
And when it come to rapping fast, I'm the Higgs Boson
And though my style freakish
I could still break your body down to five pieces like I did Voltron
Cause I'm addicted to the craft and I be off a OG
Know me, I'm the Obi-Wan Kenobi of the dope see
Never scared of mean spirits, methamphetamine lyrics
Cooler like I'm offa codeine, low key
Don't be so judgmental, even though I'm reminiscing
If I don't know what I miss is
I'ma end up figuring out that it's home
And my mother and my grandmother cocoa butter kisses
This is just a testament to the ones that raised me
The ones that I praise and I'm thanking
I need em but the chronic all up in my clothes
And I wanna get a hug, and I can't cause I'm stanking
Never too old for a spanking,
 
igh
[Hook 2]
[Hook 1 X2]


[Hook]
I'm coming for your spot, bitch
I'm coming for your spot
[Verse 1]
I ain't slept since I graduated
I'm so tired of this school shit
Niggas talking all that glad you made it
I'm getting tired of the bullshit
Posted like facebook walls
Ask me if I care how her face look, naw
Snap back to reality, back pack and a snapple
We so far from moving jeans and backpacks from the mall
And Chance laughing em off, hand smackin em all xanax in a ball
Shoulda said lean but the lean put on the house if the track buy me a couch
No back pack in the fall, no plan back for me to fall
No man left for me to ball up
It's too risky, it's just a mistake
So crispy, is that a mixtape? Is that an album? Shutup
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
For your spot, for your top
I'm off of mine
I'm off the line, sometimes you thought I wrote it
I did, no that's bogus I'm lying but I'm focused like a ford
Can you afford? A verse from the man of the yord? Of the year?
Next it's New York next it's back to Cali, shouts to Dally Auston
I do this often, and shouts to Austin the video's awesome
They wanna know more, they wanna know why but he flossing
Now you know I'm lying now you know I'm offing eat em up lunch em
If you fuck up better punch em' is that still a freestyle?
IDK I eat cake, I still cake, with my bitch
Ripping off the top, throw up the fists for niggas that still rapping that bitch
Attack shit all and stack shit, it's still so fun to play in my car
[Outro]
I'm coming for your spot, bitch
I don't give a fuck about you or any of your shit that you...
I'm coming for your spot


[Produced by Soundz]
[Intro (x4)]
Don't do it to me
Oh no no, oh no no
[Verse 1: Justin Bieber]
Focused, I'm focused
She got a body like that
I ain't never seen nothing like that
Like a fantasy in front of me
I think that something special is going down
That's right I think she foreign
Think she foreign, got passports
Mi amor started slow, got faster
She gon' work some more, work some more
No stopping her now, no stopping her now
[Pre-Hook]
Then she started dancing, sexual romancing
Nasty but she fancy, lipstick on my satin sheets
What's your nationality? I wonder if there's more of you
She's got my attention, she's confident
[Hook]
Oh no no, oh no no
She's confident
Oh no no, oh no no
And I'm down with it
Oh no no, oh no no
She's confident
You could tell by the way she walks in the room
[Verse 2: Justin Bieber]
She said it's her first time
I think she might have lied
Feels so good damn, and I don't know why
I'm addicted, something like an addict
Got me twisted, but still I gotta have it
Explosive, explosive (I could still smell her perfume)
It's not hard to notice, that I'm open
Hypnotized by the way she moves
[Pre-Hook]
Then she started dancing, sexual romancing
Nasty but she fancy
, 
Mona Lisa masterpiece
What's your nationality?
 
I wonder if there's more of you
She's got my attention, she's confident
[Hook]
[Bridge]
She said it's her first time
I think she might have lied
Feels so good damn, and I don't know why
I'm addicted, something like an addict
Got me twisted, but still I gotta have it
 
(Chance, the Rapper?)
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Tattoos, piercings and she just learned to twerk
She ain't got a heart or a ass, just her brains
 
gotta ask cause her ass on a learning curve
And she love to hurn the berb, I mean burn the word
That's only legal with a doctor's note
Real deep pockets like a doctor's coat
Stay faded like Diddy's hair, back tryna' rock the vote
She the first mate when I rock the boat
She never forget to ride like a bicycle
She like planes, trains, chains with icicles
It goes her, blank, blank, and rock & roll
She say "I know, honey bunny, that's the funny thing"
Thots twerk for the Goodfellas
She money dance with the money team
IGH!
[Hook + Bridge]
[Outro]
Still I gotta have it (x3)
Oh no no, oh no no (x4)
But still I gotta have it


[Produced by OnGaud]
[Verse 1: Mick Jenkins]
Started from the bottom of the map
Move to the Chi like fifth grade
Running like the water from the tap
Move with a mind like what switch blades see
I ain’t never been the type of nigga that'd change with the fame, you could put it in quotes
Been down to ride for my niggas had pegs, on a Mongoose sitting on spokes
Pant cuffs sitting on the peanut butter loafs
Living on the rim of the glass of the water
Don't you see people out here pimping your hope
Living on a whim, lower class getting slaughtered, killed
Niggas in the streets on the pipe no kilt
, it's a skirt motherfucker you know it
Pull the triggers to the beats
Taking lives, no guilt
Got the summer feel like it's snowing, cold
Shoulders, murders, mowed us down
Damn, you could tell these niggas need a drink
Sun get hotter streets get colder, damn
You could tell these niggas need a drink
Spit his flow like is coming up the sink
And the shit hot like it's coming in the mink
Never dumb it down, make a dumb nigga think
Ginger in his tea make a dumb nigga drink
Grippin your heart and grippin your soul
Grippin that iron, I’m dropping that zinc
Gotta move smart I didn’t learned from the dope
Just what I’m gonna do, with the coke and the ink
Like oh no, they locked a nigga up for smoking purple
I’m free, I’m screaming, "free my niggas" 'til the world blow
I’m screaming "free my niggas" 'til the world blow
Save Money she gonna do it for the free
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
She gonna do it for the freak
Dinner reservations with a Navajo
Indian in her family like a lot of hoes
Lot of hoes done said they was not a ho
Now the Leprechauns done lied about they pot'o'gold
I’m bout my green like an avocado guacamole
I’m from the Chi, she say she shy but she gotta go
Prodigal
 
Solid gold
Chains bought from college shows
Staying out in Hollywood Wayne out of Hollygrove
Kamikaze comma Common Keef and ComicCon
Ye and me and King L Katie here's a comet coming
Kamehameha
, 
Chi may have made a spirit bomb
Here’s a ton of acid, ready for it here it comes
,
(WOOOOO!)
Uh, I’m just having fun with it
Vic just brought the beef up, Mick just brought a gun with it
You think you could stomach it?
Umf, tummy ache
All you did was shadow box, All you did was run in place
Started from the middle of the class, multi-entendre
And now I can do what I wanna
Shouts out Shetandra and Shando, shouldn't have shined a light on me
[Verse 3: Vic Mensa]
Staring at the bottom of the bottle
Pour it out for the fam take the shots
In the land, shoot first think last that’s the motto
Money on my mind
Mega Millions on the rise, scratch off like I'm tryna win the lotto
Lot of baller niggas done lied about their jump shots
Tryna play the shooter 'til they shot him (pow)
Got 'em (pow pow)
Shoes off and kick up my feet
Talk dirty, never brush my teeth
Tell em I'm Rosa Parks, they can suck my seed
I ain't giving up my seat
Saw my face through the stain glass window in church
Demons in the night when I sleep
Stole the collection cash out the pastor's purse
Gave it to a bum to get something to eat
Paper twistin, bend it backwards
Flip the script, dyslexic actors
Atom smashing, passing, bombing, writing it off my taxes
Uncle 
 done put a 
 on my 
Me, Mick Jenkins and Chancelor, chances are you no competitor
(OnGaud my nigga)


[Intro]
Cruisin' in my 6-4, damn I got a sick flow
Cruisin' in my 6-4, damn I got a sick flow
Cruisin' in my 6-4, you know I got a sick flow
Ask me where I'm headed to
Askin' what they askin' for
[Verse]
Album full of hits, pocket full of tricks
Bag full of green
, mouth full of swish
Ear full of Chronic album
, 
head full of dead cells
Cap full of afro,
 hand full of steering wheel
Cruise past the bus stop, 2 miles per hour
Air condition blowin' with the windows rolled down
And I turn it up cause the speakers full of bass
And I pull down the top cause the air's full of grape
With a hand full of 
cockiness
Back seat full of hoes
Clip full of BBC, backpack full of clothes
Neck full of gold ropes, ear full of diamonds
Woke up from the dream I ain't even got my licence
Shit
[Outro]
Cruisin' in my 6-4, damn I got a sick flow
Cruisin' in my 6-4, you know I got a sick flow
Cruisin' in my 6-4, damn I got a sick flow
Ask me where I'm headed to
Askin' what they askin' for
What they askin' for? What the fuck they askin' for?
Fuck they askin' for?


[Intro : Chance The Rapper]
Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na, Oh
Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na-Na
[Hook : Chance The Rapper]
Crusin' in my 64,
 
damn I got a sick flow (x2)
Crusin' in my 64 you know I got a sick flow
Ask me where i'm headed to, ask him what they askin' fo'
[Verse 1 : Chance The Rapper]
Album full of hits,
 
(?)
Bag full of green,
 
mouth full of swish
Ear full of chronic album,
 
head full of dead cells
Cap full of afro,
 hand full of steering wheel
Cruise past the bus stop, 2 miles in out
Air condition blowin' with the windows, rolled down
And I turn it up, cause the speakers full of bass
Pull down the top cause the air's full of grape
With a handful of cockiness, backseat full of hoes
Clip full of B.B.C, backpack full of clothes
Neck full of gold ropes, ear full of diamonds
Woke up from the dream I ain't even got my license
Shit
[Hook Variation]
Crusin' in my 64, damn I got a sick flow
Crusin' in my 64 you know I got a sick flow
Crusin' in my 64, damn I got a sick flow
Ask me where i'm headed to, ask him what they askin' fo'
What they askin' fo, what the fuck they askin' fo'
Fuck they askin' fo'


[Verse 1: SZA]
Ripping the heads off all my Barbie dolls
Toss them to the side, give them convertibles
Click vroom, I like the way it rides up
Ken had it all, Skipper wanted more than
Watching from the sidelines, wish that she had it
She wish that she had it
Here in your backyard, building a fantasy
Fuck reality, do you want to know, know me
Do you want to know me?
Stuck in Nintendo, you're the controller
Street Fighters and such
I yelled finish him
(Down goes Frazier)
I yelled, finish him
[Verse 2: King Libra]
I think of you everytime i go to sleep
But hardly i ever see you in my dreams
The craziest things i forsee everything
I doubt that'll it happen because it stops running
Like raven symone show
Come closer baby baby i want you to come over
Put you on the bed lay you sideways
But sometimes its best to just bend you over
Me and my career has that centipede relationship
Doing every little thing thats good so my mini me
Can have a good legacy
I try to encourage chy to vocalise or hormanize
She said she can't she in denile
Just think of how talented our kids will be girl
She love it when im convincing
I think twice before a cypher
Now and then i rap and sing in the shower
Used to watch my unlce on both sides freestyle
Now its my turn
Where do i begin
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
I got L's on my record
Weed on the vinyl
Keys open doors when them keys is albino
Now knock on my door when my stars is a Lionel
I've been fishing for a minute for a minnow
Only I know that a pawn is a trade
And a rookie for a castle like tuition for a final
Playing hooky for a tassel, spend a minute on the minor
Winds on my window
Ash on my skin, when the record low temps for the wind blow
Only write rhythm to the tardiest of tempos
Only ride shotgun when the car is a limo
Y'ar see
I crowd surf in a cypher
Scuba in my shower, take an Uber to my neighbors
Used to pay the piper, till peter picked it better
Now the first thing you should tell is where the hell is all the paper
But memories keep coming back
All the nights that we used to laugh
Wanna know how I used to was, how I used to was
[Outro: SZA and Chance the Rapper and King Libra] (x6)
Memories keep playing back, all the nights we used to love
Just wondering how we used to was, how we used to was


[CJ Fly]
Yeah my dogs keep, yeah my dogs keep rollin' always with it
And you know my homies got a bad bitch or two with me
Sittin' in the motherfucking 
Plus she got a fucking seatbelt on
She tryna be safe up in the whip
I tell her let me cum and rub her clit
She said she want me suckin' her tits
I told her come and lick this dick
Play me, what you tryin' to do
Yeah, you know I'm with that crew
Savemoney, Pro Era, yeah you know, this how we do
And I always stack my paper up
Bitches said they want a cup of that gin and juice
You know I'm just tryin' to do whatever you do
Every time I'm chillin' with the newest niggas flew
And you know I spit that sick shit like I got the flu-u
[NatNaiel]
And I keep it true, true
Can I keep it true, true (x5)
Chillin' with a bad bitch
Hopin' that she feelin' villain
All up in my crib
And I'm rollin', now she chillin', chillin'
? and then I know that she wit' it, wit' it
She said send me, gimme, gimme dick and you can get it
And she 'bout to give it, give it
Yeah, she fuckin' love it, love it
I don't really give a fuck
Fuckin' hoes in public, public
Now I 
Now I change the subject
? until I kick the bucket
[Tokyo Shawn]
And I'mma get gab, so you know that I be thuggin'
I'll be cuttin' in the line, but you know I'm budget
I'll be gettin' cash and you know that I be thuggin'
Rappin' with my cousin
Niggas know they love it
[Joey Purp]
Bitches give me temptation
Call me David Ruffin
Niggas this talkin' clothes
My shits ain't even gotta ruffle
Niggas got a chip on they shoulder get it ruffled
Got a Louis bag, and a wallet and a duffel
Niggas talking crazy I be talking hella wavy
Got these bitches on me man these bitches bitches probably pay me
Niggas call me Purp
Bitches call me Purp (x3)
[Chance the Rapper]
I wrote this shit two minutes from now
And the benefits now
You know what I'm saying? I'm handling business now
This shit rhymes in my head
I be ripping off the dimes with a thread
And a needle while I sew it up
I'm so cold, enough to get frozen up
In a bowl of soup that's a bowl enough
You ever had Ebola virus?
I like Miley Cyrus
And 
 that talk like they white 
I don't even like white kids
I just let 'em shoot video though
And all the time I be silly with hoes
And you know I be switching up the ?
Silly with bros from my high school
Been doing shit you know how I do
Had to do it the same, don't like you
In the back of a muthafucking barbecue
That shit crazy though, that shit crazy though
We been rapping and shit since we was babies though
And my voice gettin kinda crazy though
So I'mma pass it off to that nigga Tokyo
[Vic Mensa]
You never did it before
Shawty throw it at me and she got that 
You on some new shit, illiterate though
These niggas is illegitimate though
I could be your father, you could be a bastard
Baby you the one I'm coming after
Rap faster, really quick, get a laughter
Nigga this ain't written, know that I be gassin'
Gassin' like petrol' and Exelon
I'm upper like echelon
Proper to downer, when I'm up in an hour
I've been smoking too much green thick for an hour
Pass out when I pass out, cash out
Like I'm cashing out, I'm passing out
I've been bad and now... Abandon out
Let me get a band it out for Brandon now
?
And niggas be talking until the bands come out
But then "BLAM"s come out and "BAM"s come out
And they be sleeping, laying in the grave when they tweaking
Talking off they neck, you know that they be creeping
[CJ Fly]
Bitches try to come and get my fucking dough
I've always been a pro
I got so many hoes
I got them on my line man and they always call my phone
I'm like baby girl I'm at the telly I ain't home
So don't try to call my mom like "Where's Cy at?"
I always got to come through with the newest fly hat
My hair real braided
Your bitch says she want to come and get real faded
So we drinking on the thick shit
[Vic Mensa]
Faded, Back in high school they tried to flame me
From the fifth graded
But I stay graded cause I'm smoking on the home grown
Remember when bitches used to be blowing up my home phone
That was back in the day, my moms would answer
But these days, got on the raps, I'm sicker than cancer
I'm the answer like Iverson when I'm coming through ?
I'm the livest one like, I live strong but they lying son like
[Joey Purp]
I'm the problem like McGrady
If it wasn't for my ? this shit would've been gravy
That was metaphorical, keep it mesophysical
I lost my voice up in your bitch I'm Malcolm in the Middle fool
Niggas couldn't see with me I'm never seeing syllables
Niggas got residuals but thats just off of principle
In general, niggas know ...uh
[Rapper 4]
? Cocaine, I could make it snow rain
I could take the dope game, 8 minutes? Whole thing
Yup I flipped the shit right, yall niggas came back
Motherfuckers kick dice
Motherfuckers kick this shit, kick it like you kick vice
Motherfuckers don't do it twice
I keep this realest off the top with ?
Motherfuckers need to pass it
[Joey Purp]
Good bro, Rogaine, ? Pro pain
Thats good fire, propane
Niggas talking about hot freeze
I be talking 'bout low mane
I be out in Tokyo, chilling with hoes from Tokyo
With my nigga Tokyo,
 this freestyle, that noise bro
Same money that ?
There Heroine, I know its dope
That crack rock, that's no insult
?
Let that nigga know it though
No, No it don't
They call me ?
You smoking on the Joey Purp you know my nigga Joey doe
Spit that fire, spit that fire, niggas yelling ?
At the same year, my niggas was hella shouting
Smoking on some shit that was grown in the Rocky Mounties
I be off the top nigga spouting


[Produced by Just Blaze]
[Intro]
Yo Java, we all praying for you my brother
This one's for you
[Verse]
Dear summer, what you been on with my friends
You a snake throwin' all types of salt in the plants
And every weekend it get a little worse
Thinking everybody's homies [?]
Puttin faces on the bullets and the six chambers
But in our faces is the faces in the newspapers
You provide the summer nights, Drake provide the soundtrack
We provide the pockets and they heads make us bounce back
And you gotta answer soon as the triggers call
Tired of posting "rest in peace" on my niggas' walls
Too many cops with the aims on 'em
Too many spray painted t-shirts with little niggas names on 'em
And I'm sure that a little came from anger
But mostly cause niggas ain't afraid to up banger
And maybe I need a geography class or something
But when did Chicago become a part of East Compton?
And when did Windy City mean we'll blow you all away?
And when did throwing hands become the hoish move to play?
Around the time when killing cops became the route to follow
And a bullet on your plate became the Taste of Chicago, uh!
But you held it down for my niggas this season
Cause everybody see 'em and out here chiefing
And we all got plug, but we don't really need 'em
Hamburger helper, got the gloves if you beefin'
Put your weapons down, drop 'em if you keep 'em
Throw them hands and I'll throw your mans in the deep end
Throw a party every week and every single weekend
Summer's almost over but you do it kinda decent
And this one here is for the ave
And all my homies pouring memories out of caskets made of glass
Til we walk on streets completely made of O.E
Shout out to North Ave and Oak Street
And Tinley park and Tuley park and also Morgan Park
Chicago paints a picture that is more than art
We all fear for fall to have to show up
So summer lets us never have to grow up
Chicago summers


[Verse 1]
I want a letterman jacket so bad that it hurts
And I hate my mom cause she makes me wear theses shirts
I go to school just to get picked on
Every day they make me feel like I don’t belong
They hate me because I’m different
The adults around me, they don’t hear me, they ain’t listening
To get love you better be popular
I wanna see my name on day on the [monica?]
But I’mma need some basketball shorts
A cheerleader too and a basketball shirt
A box of Newports and a Gatorade sport
And a new pair of Jordans and a basketball court
Then a girl who will find me attractive
Love from my peers, you know the whole package
I got the code to happiness and I could [?]
And all of this comes with the letterman jacket
[Hook]
As we all grow older the truth will be understood
Cause we never turn out the way we thought we would
[Verse 2]
I want a new nose and a brand new car
That could drive myself seemed away so far
I want to be loved, I want a new start
A botex mind and a silicone heart
We got collagen celebs and liposucked stars
I’m just lookin for my own Wizard of Oz
To give me courage, forget a brain
Give me a straight nose and take away pain
Give me a big butt and a little bitty waist
Give me some glory with a prettier face
Give me a bottle of tequila and a cup and don’t [?]
Give me a camera, give me a new facebook profile
Give me some big breasts and some tight clothes
And I’ll have a boyfriend and friends and just pose
In front of stores, and we’ll be loved just wait
Please Doctor Oz, can you make my nose straight?
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I want a football, I want to be thuggin’
Fuck it, I want an easy bake oven
I want to be loved by my dad
But my dad said he can’t love no fag
So I’mma hafta hide who my real self is
And hide who I like but I can’t help it
Doctor Oz, can you make me not gay?
Make me normal and take this pain away
Cause when you disdained, every day it rains
And I don’t want to be better I just want to be the same
Mr. Wiz I just wanna live in a normal way
Normal, according to those others that pray
But your blessings and needles just take characters away
So I would rather be different in a similar way
Being gay is cool with me, so let me say
Fuck a football I take an easy bake any day
[Hook]


[Produced by Magnus Lidehäll and Social Experiment]
[Verse 1: Mapei]
A friend indeed, come build me up
Come shed your light, it makes me shine
You get the message, don't you ever forget it
Let's laugh and cry until we die
[Hook: Mapei]
If it wasn't for you I'd be alone
If it wasn't for you I'd be on my own
Don't wait 'til I do wrong
Don't wait 'til I put up a fight
You won my heart without a question
Don't wait for life
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
IGH!
I'll hug you when I see you like you're leaving for a trip
I fuck you when I need to, I just need you for a bit
I've been fiending for a hit
Got my guards down in God's garden, Eve and Adam eatin' all of it
Before I left and I was leaving
Took a bite and it was sweeter than a bitch, now I'm bitter
I'm only back for funerals, we should throw a wedding
I'm only packing fewer clothes, I forgot forgetting
I just gave a fuck for nothing, got it. Good. Forgiven
I be getting got, but begotten sons is setting
And if I said it then I meant it, for a minute, least a moment
I could wait for Easter, just to know if it's a home
And if it is then I'm setting up shop
I appreciate your value, I just let it up stock
Do wait for love
[Hook: Mapei]
[Verse 3: Maipei]
Not a thing in the world could get between what we share
No matter where you at, no worry I'll be there
No one's got your back like I do
Even when the business ain't going well, we still cool
When I shine, you shine, always on your side
All my life you'll have what's mine
Mark my word, we gon' be alright
My brother, my sister we gon' be just fine
[Hook: Maipei]
[Outro]
Don't wait 'til I... (do wrong)
Don't wait 'til I... (put up a fight)
You won my heart
Without a question
Don't wait for life


[Bridge x2]
You feel me deep down, you got me so quick
You mess me around, I'll be taking that shit
You hold me so tight, I'm singing so sweet
To fill me with light to the tip of my feet
Uh yeah
And I'll be yours for the night
Tell me what you wanna do!
Do anything you like
All my thoughts are focused on you
Wanna' let you know
I'm never gonna let you go
Keep doing me right
You make me feel like
[Hook]
You're the only one I believe in
Nothing ever get in my way
If distance puts a little time between us
You say "baby your worth the
Wait"
Just remember how much I please ya
Don't forget the next time I see ya
All night long, you gon' be an ecstasy, eh oh
[Bridge x2]
Oh yeah
And I'll be yours for the night
Say what you wanna, say what you wanna
Do anything you like
Do what you're gonna, do what you're gonna
Wan' let you know
I'm never gonna let you go
Keep doing me right
You make me feel like
[Hook]
[Chance the Rapper]
IGH!
Chance? The Rapper?
Damn baby, why you smell so good?
 
(IGH!)
Why yo nails in my back always felt so good? (IGH!)
Why you so deep?
 
Why you spell so good? (IGH!)
Why when you make me a grilled cheese, the cheese melt so good?
Why don't y-o-u and I fly off to Dubai
So I can dive in your bayou, thought of buying you the sky
I (IGH!) love you like gramma love Jesus
Like Jesus love you,
 
like pews love preachers
Like Ozzie loved Ruby
, 
like Ruby loves Gator
But Gator loved rock
, 
like rock does paper (IGH!)
You gone be the death of me, my negative necessity (IGH!)
My medicine, my holy sin
 (IGH!), 
I'm rolling on your ecstasy
 (IGH!)
Dance, girl, drop it, shake it (IGH!)
Pop that back until you break it (IGH!)
Slow pop, pretend your naked (IGH!)
You're the one, oh you're my baby
 (IGH!)
(Tinashe: You make me feel like)
[Hook]
You hold me so...
(Hold me so tight, You feel me with light)
You feel me deep down, and you got me so quick
You hold me so tight
You sing me to sleep (sing me to sleep)
Fill me with light


[Produced by DJ Ozone]
[Intro: Slum Village]
Ladies loving my music is like some sex shit
Niggas trying to grip up my mic like it's a dick (On the mic like it's a dick)
Run around the corner to pick up the new shit (The shit)
Toss this in the deck so niggas can catch rep
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
What's good, good? And what's good, evil?
And what's good, gangstas? And what's good, people?
And whys God's phone die every time that I call on Him?
If his son had a Twitter wonder if I would follow him
Swallow them synonyms like cinnamon Cinnabon
Keep all them sentiments down to a minimum
Studious Gluteus Maxim models is sending him
Pics of they genitalia tallied up ten of 'em
I slurped too many pain-kills, down I'm off a lot
I got a lot off days but it ain't often that I'm off the clock
Ya Kna Wha Mean,
 
I got the Chicago Blues
We invented rock before the Stones got through
We just aiming back cause the cops shot you
Buck buck bang bang, yelling "Fuck Fox News!"
Booyaka buckle up,
 
mothafuck opps too
Ain't no knuckling up 'em young cause it just not cool
[Bridge: Chance The Rapper]
Nice to see you Father New Year
Middle finger Uncle Samuel
Shooting death with weighted dice
And hitting stains on birthday candles
I know somebody, somebody loves my ass
Cause they help me beat my demons ass
[Hook: Chance The Rapper & BJ the Chicago Kid]
Everybody's somebody's everything
I know you right
Nobody's nothing
That's right
(3x)
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Right? IGH
I used to tell hoes I was dark light or off white
But I'd fight if a nigga said that I talk white
And both my parents was black
But they saw it fit that I talk right
With my drawers hid but
My hard head stayed in the clouds like a lost kite
But gravity had me up in a submission hold
Like I'm dancing with the Devil with two left feet and I'm pigeon toed
In two small point ballet shoes with a missing sole
And two missing toes
But it's love like Cupid kissing a mistletoe
[Bridge]
[Verse 3: Saba]
Like Cassius ducking the draft and now the fight is over
The type to love from a distance not the type that told her
Spent three days on the rap, trash it and type it over
With babies on the block under arms like fighting odors
Coppers and quotas
Hold ya head like 2Pac had taught
Obviously they are on a come up
With better chances tobogganing in the fucking summer
Concoctions for the bad days and a condom for the good ones
All odds against we tryna get lucky
Doper than Lucky
You're ending happy that's only a tugging
Like Satan masturbating shit come hot
But y'all still love me ugh
How father time a deadbeat
Maybe I'm adopted
That'll explain why all of my shit been so timeless IGH
[Hook: Chance The Rapper & BJ the Chicago Kid]


[Produced by Cam]
[Making the Beat]
[Intro]
Ken: Well I should have you hooked up next week
Chance: It's all good or whatever, I can wait 'til my birthday. I uh-
Ken: No, no, no, no. I told ya, I know you need it now, so next week I promise you I'll have you hooked up, ok?
Chance: Oh, alright. I just wanted to say thank you for everything. For the computer, the T-Shirts, and all the other stuff
Ken: You know, Chance. Let me tell you something. You know, I could never be more proud of anything in my life, you know, than I am of you and what you've done. Chance, you have done remarkable and wondrous things, so you don't have to tell me thank you for anything. I'm supposed to do this, that stuff for you anyway, and ya know, just keep doing what you're doing. I am very, very proud of you. Just keep doing what you're doing, ok?
Chance: Thank you, love you
Ken: Alright, son. Love you too, take care
Chance: Bye bye
Thanks for coming guys
[Verse 1]
'Member sittin' in class the first time listening to Dilla
Everything's good
Rubbin' on yo chin,
 
sippin gin, Margiela brand chinchilla
Everything's good
My manager backpack packed with packs of cigarillos
And some fruit snacks,
 
And some killer's
Phone numbers on speed dial call them save monkey guerillas
Everything's good
I ain't really that good at goodbyes
I ain't really that bad at leaving
I ain't really always been a good guy, I used to be thirsty thievin'
Runnin through purses even persons leave em hurtin' bleedin
I ain't really help the helpless
I used to be worse than worthless
Now I'm worth hooks and verses
I'm good like books in churches
Harolds and Hooks and Churches
Everything's Good
See my name when you google search it
Use a card when I make a purchase
Everything's Good
But I knew it was fly when I was just a caterpillar
That I'd make it even if I never make a milla
,
When I meet my maker he gon' make sure that we chillin'
And everything's good
I ain't really that good at goodnight, I ain't really that bad at sleepin
With bad bitches, put them aside, I used to be thirsty creeping
Now I'm out working evenings birthdays even Tuesdays Wednesdays Thursdays weekends, rehearsing verses, murdering merch and events
Damn it feel good to be a gangsta
And it feel good for me to thank you
Put money back in your bank account
Off of songs I barely could think up
,
Cause a lot of songs niggas gon' make up
Make sense, but they never gon' make a sound
I'm better than I was the last time, crescendo
Thanks Justin, lending them pencils
Mr. Menzies, Mensa, Chris Minto
The time I beat Chris on Nintendo
Nanana hey hey,
 
good intro
,
Remember jacket shoppin' after listening to Thriller
Remember the first time you heard this through and thought, "damn that's that nigga."
Everything's good


[Produced by Blended Babies]
[Verse 1: Vic Mensa]
Turn the radio up and we can have a good time
Got me feeling like J.J. on Good Times
Back when Thelma had that ass, off the fam good
My sister said she likes my raps cause it sounds good
Told me not to cut corners, use to cut quarters
Sitting in the room, on the phone, cooking up orders
Till my pops popped me off, that was family matters
Used to watch him in the kitchen sipping Sammy Adams
Now I'm rollin', iPhone Stolen
Mama whip with 5 of my guys, 4 holdin'
Trying to live our lives like our lives are so golden
Got big shoes to fill like try go bowling
Til we strike out, we just hoping we don't strike out
4th quarter, how you gon go and take Mike out?
Summertime Chi, I had to pull the bike out
Riding getting nice cause it's nice out
[Hook: Chance The Rapper]
Let's land in the land where the Famo stay
Grind all day til the fam okay
It still warm my heart to hear my grandma pray
For the fam of my friends when my mans go away
 (x2)
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Don't wake up, don't wake up, don't wake up too fast
Don't make up your mind, you should flake on that class
Sing all you want, just don't Drake on they ass
Shore you got drive, don't turn fake on they ass
Good morning, good raps, good morrow, good luck
Tonight you could blow, tomorrow you suck
Bizarro, my carro,
 
I borrowed from Chuck
A new SLR and Ferrarro deluxe
No money for the meter when I'm parkin' em
Gassed than a bitch no car with him
Market him, tell him that he's
 
buzzing like a game of operation with Parkinsons
Young kid rappers, kidnappers
Young whipper snapper that will whip past ya
Will get at you, come get at you
Wanna break ya off, Come Kit-Kat you
[Hook]
[Verse 3: 
Sulaiman
]
Now the team work make the dream work
Go ahead and send an application if you need work
If it need hurt, then I'mma bring hurt
How you finna see the clouds if you never seen dirt
Now you finna play it loud, listen how it's goin down
Didn't know the name before bet you niggas know it now
Chi-City niggy
, 
made a 50 out a penny
Got some titties at the cribby
 
and the Savemoney with me and we going in
Going all out for them hoes again
Now I'm fin to bring the fucking flow and bend it back
And show it's more to this than rap
Love my parents for supporting cause they know I'm finna crack
Know my niggas got my back, got some niggas selling packs
But I'm tryin' to get em cheese so I can get em out the trap
Now my figures getting fat, a lot of hoes be tryin' to jack
But I got her on my lap, All she do is make it clap
[Hook x 4]


[Produced by Nate Fox]
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Chance, acid rapper, soccer, hacky sacker
Cocky khaki jacket jacker
Slap-happy faggot slapper
Iraqi rocket launcher
Shake that Laffy Taffy, jolly raunchy rapper
Bang, bang, bang - skeet, skeet, skeet
She do that thing for three retweets
The album feel like '92
Now take that ball 'fore he three-peat
Chance, ho, acid head, cruising on that LSD
Asked Joseph about my deal
He looked back said "hell yeah, let's eat!"
[Hook]
This shit my favorite song, you just don't know the words
But I still fuck with you, you just ain't never heard
It go like: count that stack, pop that cap then down that Jack
All my niggas hit that zan, and all my ladies bounce that back
This my jam, this my jam, this my jam, this my jam
I'm 'bout that jam, I'm 'bout that jam, I'm 'bout that jam, I'm 'bout that jam
This my jam, this my jam, this my jam, this my jam
I'm 'bout that jam, I'm 'bout that jam, I'm 'bout that jam, I'm bout that jam
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Young Rascal Flatts
 - 
young ass kid ass could rap
Fuck all the faculty, tobacco-packing acrobat
Back-to-back packin' bags back and forth with fifths of Jack and
Fourths of weed, I'm back to pack on hands
With young Cletus to pat my back
Real nigga with a nose ring, that's right
Just here to rap them songs
Rag on my hair, wrap weed in Vegas, rockin' Vagabonds
Sang a song, oh you don't know? What?
Well, I still bang with you
Hang with you, sip drank with you
As long as I can sang with you like:
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Childish Gambino]
Niggas please be focused - that 'Bino, you know this
He rep the home of Sosas, you know I'm from that Zone 6
You know I rep that Stone shit
, 
you know your 'hood is so clit
As God as my witness, this Will Smith spit real shit
I'mma be that - CG busy gettin', where the weed at?
Bought your girl some new kneepads
You're fuckin' with the Fifi bag
My stars, egad, she said: "this my favorite song"
"Hold my purse" - now she on the floor, droppin' like it's hot
You blast this shit in Abercrombie when your work is finished
Your mom won't play it in the car cause it's got cursing in it
Your boy like: "I'm the one who showed you," he want his percentage
Cause you were like: "this ain't the nigga you said spittin', is it?"
Two-step
 - 
white dude's Harlem Shake
Why you laughing?
Cause you Harlem Shake
I was never fake, I was just too good to be true
That's acid rap, we killed the track
You had your chance, and 'Bino too
[Hook]


[Produced by Clams Casino]
[Verse 1: Pia Mia]
We live in our own world
We feel the way that we create
Who ever knows what's real
Turn your backs to appreciate
[Pre-Chorus: Pia Mia]
And the day is gonna come
And the day is gonna come
And the day is gonna come
When you decide who you'll become
[Chorus: Pia Mia]
I know you know it, you know it
But you can't choose who's inside
But if you just show it, let me know it
Then I'll fight for you tonight
I'll fight for you
I'll fight for you tonight
[Verse 2: Pia Mia]
We take each other's love
We know the way to use it all
The world can't turn enough
It never changes up for us
[Pre-Chorus] + [Chorus]
[Bridge: Pia Mia]
Keep on fighting
Keep on fighting yeah, can't stop 'til it's time
'Til it, 'til it comes back
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
You don't gotta fight no more
This is my war put down your sword
Pack up, I'm strapped up, I got this, I promise
I think this is what they make back-up for
This is my score
Let me put something on the board
Your hand me down handicap secondhand trouble
That you try to juggle
You need a hand, hand me that
I'll hold the duffle, you shovel
I love you like blood do
Sea your shell scuffle and triumph
I beach your demons, now wipe off your Sandy back
Shore, we fall, but standing back to back
I can't evacuate you in this situation
Tie your shoelace, I fall behind
You wait for, it's your boy
Got you forevermore
Rest your poor, bruised body and relax, SCORE!
[Chorus]


[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
I want a Letterman jacket
So bad that it hurts
And I hate my mom
‘cause she makes me wear these shirts
I go to school just to get picked on
Every day they make me feel like I don’t belong
They hate me because I’m different
The adults surround me, they don’t hear me, they ain’t listening
To get love you gotta be popular
I’d love to see my name one day in the 
…
But I’mma need some basketball shorts
A cheerleader, too, and a basketball shirt
A box of Newports and a Gatorade sport
And a new pair of Jordans in a basketball court
Then the girl who will find me attractive
Love for my peers, you know, the whole package
I’ve got the code to happiness and I could crack it
And all of this comes with the Letterman jacket
[Hook]
As they all grow older the truth will be understood
‘Cause we never turn up the way we thought we would
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
I want a new nose and a brand new car
Package on myself, it seem the way so far
I wanna be loved, I want a new scar
A Botox mind and a silicone heart
We got collagen in celebs and lypo-suck stars
I’m just looking for my own Wizard of Oz
To give me courage, forget the plan
Give me a straight nose and take away pain
Give me a big but and little bitty waist
Give me some glory with a prettier face
Give me a bottle of tequila and a cup, don’t smug
Give me the camera, give me a new face per profile
Give me big breasts and some tight clothes
And a half of boyfriend in France and just pose for the stones
And we’ll be loved, just wait
Please, doctor Oz, can you make my nose straight?
[Hook]
As they all grow older the truth will be understood
‘Cause we never turn up the way we thought we would
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
I want a football, I wanna be thuggin’
Fuck it, I want an easy-bake oven
I wanna be loved by my dad but my dad said he can’t love no fag
So I’mma have to hide who my real self is
And hide who I like but I can’t help it
Doctor Oz, can you make me not gay?
Make me normal and take this pain away
‘Cause when you’re disdained, every day it rains
And I don’t wanna be better, I just wanna be the same
Mister Oz, I wanna live in a normal way
Normal according to those other that pray
But your blessings and eagles just take character away
So I’d rather be different in a similar way
Being gay is cool with me so let me say
Fuck a football, I’ll take an easy-bake any day
[Hook]
As they all grow older the truth will be understood
‘Cause we never turn up the way we thought we would


[Intro:]
This song go out to anybody who lost one of they homies man
You ever lost somebody
That felt like you was in this shit by yourself
But you gotta fight man
It's hard
[Verse 1: Lil Herb]
My momma used to say, "Never quit, baby that just don't exist!"
And just cause she'll suck ya dick, don't mean you could trust the bitch!
I'm just giving you the real
Cause I don't come from Hollywood or Beverly Hills
I'm from where mothers don't care and babies get killed
Where you gotta rob and go steal for stomachs to fill
And it's hard for a young, black nigga like myself
Where the police compare oneself with everybody else
So that means if you yourself they think you're everybody else
So I don't care 'bout no one else
Just my family and myself
Yeah, that's just my way of thinkin'
In my city and it helps cause no one gives a fuck
About me, you, or nobody else
And it's cool
I'm still livin' over East
We still chillin', sippin' lean
Smokin' swishas, stackin' hunnits to the ceilin'
We still winnin'
We just fightin' to survive
It's a shame I gotta ride with this nina on my side
They used to say...
[Hook:]
Never quit, never give in
Hey, don't you quit
Never give in
[Verse 2: Common]
Rings and watches, kings deposites
Chains that seemed preposterous
Gettin' paper never seemed monotonous
Time is money
, 
the streets is watchin' like a scene from Clockers
Fiends is nauseous, chicken wings they gossip
Niggas wings is tied up in dreams and product
The block gets hotter when the streets is dried up
We react like shottas when niggas is fired up
On some James Brown shit, I'mma take you higher
To stay live niggas still livin' like The Wire
A tight rope so they steppin' on that white dope
I ride with my niggas cause that's the cycle
Suppliers, buyers, leaning like they biased
This is circus, niggas and broads wearin' wires
The eye of the tiger in my iris
Eyes on the prize, I'm a fighter
[Hook:]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Me and my pops shared the same home phone number
Called us "single parent home", sorry, wrong number
I did my push ups, and my homework, and my house work
And my dirt, talk back until my mouth hurt
Daddy furious, Trey hopped in the car though, close the car door
Wonderin' why our 
father God couldn't spare Rod for
Spoiler alert, Trey get out the car and walk home with his heart broke
My poppa love me, ops left me
Stains fed me, and they dressed me
Come home freshly dressed and he addressed me
And he pressed me
Called me a thief, called me a boy, called me a coward
At least he ain't call me from county with an hour worth of advice from my 5 day
Why Doughboy couldn't have the same pops that he had on Friday?
I'd rather be a real man than a real nigga, real talk
[Hook:]
[Verse 4: Lil Herb]
I've seen mommas treat their daughters like the scum of the Earth
Snake niggas put their homies since they was young on a shirt
It's your life well, tell me what it's worth
Cause when you come across that death you don't get another birth
You better live it up
Haters want me dead, they better work, I ain't gonna give it up
Fuck around get hit with every one like you ain't feel enough
Pussy niggas gotta feel the drugs before they start feelin' tough
In the streets I'm tryna feel the love but I ain't feelin' nothin'
I love my squad, I love the hustle
I love success cause I'm from the struggle
I used to think that I could go back what I used to do
Now I cry less and less at all my homie's funerals
It's hard but it's gonna get harder and harder
Why momma always tell me just be smart and keep your guard up
I said to myself: check your back, put your squad up
Bibby tell me how to keep your head above water


[Intro]
I'm so turned up right now, I'm on way past ten
Think we made it though, we almost made it though
[Bridge]
For anybody ever shitted on your dreams – fuck y'all
Hating niggas that was on your team – fuck y'all
Bitches that was caught up in the scene – fuck y'all
Now everybody say the same thing – fuck y'all
[Verse 1]
Been down this block before, I use to hustle on it frequently
Been working like a slave, tryna make sure all my peoples eat
Last year you wouldn't speak to me, but now you wanna freak with me
But I'ma still accept the pussy, cause it's just the creep in me
I do a lot of shit that I won't rap on, cause it's in the streets
It's morals over money, and it's silence over secrecy
Damn, how you just gon' act like I finna make it?
I'm thirsty on the ground, like big homie on that spaceship, yeah
[Hook]
I'm so turned up right now, I'm on way past ten
But I still gotta ways to go, we gotta ways to go, yeah
I'm so turned up right now, where should I begin?
I think we made it though, we almost made it though, yeah
[Verse 2]
I'm so close I can taste it and I'm not even wasted
Say what's up to my cult,
 
we here to lead you out the matrix
We get gear by the cases, you still stuck on that fake shit
I roll the blunt and face it, cause I just couldn't take it
This shit don't even make sense, how could you even hate this?
But I guess I should thank them, cause that's just motivation
When I get an ovation, them goofies ain't gon' say shit
Except congratulations, it's funny, cause it's crazy
Like them niggas that was hating on your way up
Just know they gotta see you on their way down, straight up
And in the stereo, the only way that you can play us
It's Treated undefeated,
 and we comin' for them majors, bitch
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
Touchdown, who you gon' trust now?
When you blow, spontaneous-ly combust now
Now they wanna fuck now, like you give a fuck now
You use to be an unknown, but now you one of us now
Go ahead and turn up, nigga, turn up
And all them brain cells, getting burnt up
In a furnace,
 don't concern us
With them problems of tommorow is a journey, turn up
[Hook]


[Produced by Lex Luger]
[Intro]
10 Days?
Are you for real?
Are you serious?
Fuck it then!
[Hook]
Fuck you tahm bout?
Nigga, fuck you tahm bout?
[Verse 1]
Nigga, fuck this whole school and everything you tahm 'bout
Don't ask me for no I.D., bitch I fucking signed out
Bitch I've been suspended, bitch I've been on timeout
Waking up in grind mode and sleeping in a grindhouse
So please don't hit my line 'bout the party trying to find out
What time that shit going to start or when it end, or who gone come out
Or if I walked the stage, I've been on stage since I could rhyme out
Shows and shows and tapes of trying to get my fucking lines out
So please don't take my BIC out
My book out, my pick out, my hair, my fucking big mouth
You dick head you dipped out of class and now you shit out
Of luck Who fucking slick now, and with them rhymes you written down
I hope you get a mix down with a diss track
From Ms. Rownd and my dick sack in this bitch mouth
Give a five-hive to my teacher face and my principal that fist pound
And now you gotta switch gowns, caught you, little rascal
We got you throwing tantrums, when you could've thrown a tassel
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Nigga you're a weakling, why you talking dealing?
Like, "All my niggas flip birds!" Nigga, you're a wing-zing
You ain't nothing but my seedling
, I'll hang you from the ceiling
And leave yo' little ass leaking,
 
and leave yo' body stinking
Dude yo' ass been drinking? Or you just wasn't thinking?
I'll hit you with that 6-piece: bink, bink, bink, bink, bink, bink!
I hear you're pockets jingling, it's calling me like ring, ring!
I'll choke you with your bling bling, then
 
run faster than Tink Tink
And all these goofies mad though, like, "Why he such a asshole?"
And I ain't even mad yo, I'll stab you with a screwdriver
That shit ain't even rhyme nigga, I'm fucked up out my mind nigga
I stay right off the '9 nigga, that's where they try an' find a nigga
Feeling froggy? Better timid up, harsh feelings gone, put 'em in a blunt
Cause niggas don't wanna get bended up, stay talking but don’t send it up
Used to send it up for my skinner lunch
Save money niggas really won't spend a buck
Gimme that cash, that ben what up
Pockets keep that denim bruh like
[Hook]


[Intro]
It's Just A Band
Alongside Bajah
Gentleman
With African's originals, ya'know
[Verse 1: Just A Band]
[?]
With the [?] from your eyes is something that would merit
The [?] of kingship is something with [?]
We know we [?], we want infinite credit
Straight up Africans, makin' music is the jungle
[?]
[?], and Mandela
That fought so hard, no retreat, no surrender
To save the only righteous land of Africa
The land of our badge, we are evident [?]
A nation so colorful, beautiful people
Trust in the most high, the Quran and the Bible
This is what we use to destroy the devil
Is there a gentleman, please call [?]
[Hook: Bajah]
I be Africa man original
I be Africa man original
They call you, make it come chop
You chop small, you say your belly full
You say you be gentleman
You go hungry, you go so far, you go quench
Me a lovely gentleman like that
I be Africa man original
[Bridge]
I won't be gentleman at all [x6]
I be Africa man original [x2]
I won't be gentleman at all [x6]
I be Africa man original [x2]
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Aaaaaaaaaaaah
As seen spit from the mouth of a young Krishna
I'm the spitting image of the sun god
Me the man but me far from just a man
Me be the African man on God
Swing me blade like Blade, swing me chain like Django
Bang bang, slang so Kool-Aid
 stain my lingo
They buy things like blade, they might change my name
They try sprayin' my marches and tried to take my April
I still walk with a limp, I still bark with a whimper
I build your house in cement, you kicked me out in the winter
You tried to kill me, you hate me
You hate me just cause I'm livin'
You're livin' just cause I saved you
I gave you life that you given
As seen spit from the mouth of a young Krishna
I'm the spitting image of the sun god
Me the man but me far from just a man
Me be the African man on God
[Outro: Bajah]
African man
Africa man, original [x5]


[Hook: Macie Stewart]
[Verse 1: Chuck Inglish]
Yeah, we all from round the way
The food is off my plate
So bring it to the table, here's the lesson for today
Trynna hit home plate, while I'm roundin' first base
Make a promise, stay safe my nigga
Use the words that we say to guide the moves that we make
Say the most when you pray, please don't hesitate
Ask for patient with the highest is a love for all the prices
Paying money to the church can't get them prayers overnighted
The answer's inside us, you niggas want to fight it
Course they wanna shine, they don't believe they shoulda got it
It was yours all along, it's about to be on
I learned the hard way, I had to write it in this song
This is the song that we sing, a lot of love you gotta bring
That's the way, way, way
Pounds for the fam, keep the master plan in case we don't make it home that day
God forbid
[Bridge: Chance The Rapper]
God loves all my niggas
God loves all my niggas
God loves all my niggas
God loves all my niggas
Nigga, IGH!
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
God love it when you turn it up
Get a whole O and burn it up
Lean on the rocks and stir it up
Make the world turn, Copernicus
Oooh, that land that be that holy ground
Oh god my niggas won't hold me down
Even though shit's more lowkey now
Church church cathedral
Rid me of my evils
God bless me and all my foolies, my disciples, and my people
Say a prayer for the nine one time
Niggas that robbed me by the Ryan one time
Go vagabond in the line one time
Bro gods, whole squad in the line one time
I know I'll see the clouds with silver line some time
So I don't even feel the need to rhyme some time
See my nigga smiling sunshine sometimes
So bring the hook around for your sun one time
God loves all my niggas, nigga
[Hook]
[Outro]


[Produced by Cam, Peter Cottontale and Stefan Ponce]
[Trumpet by Will Miller]
[Trombone by J.P. Floyd]
[Hook: BJ The Chicago Kid]
Even better than I was the last time baby
Oh oh oh oh ooh
Yo we back
I'm good, so good
And we back and we back
[Verse 1]
Rap's just make me anxious, and acid made me crazy
Them squares just made me looser and that wax just made me lazy
And I still make this song, and I'mma make another
If you ever actually hit me, better watch out for my brother
Better bet I'd take that deal, gotta watch out for my mother
Get a watch with all that glitters, come in clutters, different colors
Ben-a-Baller, Benford, butlers, chauffeurs, hit a stain-er, did I stutter?
Did a ton of drugs and did better than all my Alma mater
Motherfucker money dance,hundreds zan, gallon lean
Make a joke bout Leno's hair then piggy back on Fallon's spleen
Balancing on sporadicity and fucking pure joy
Nightly searches for a bed and I just came off tour with Troy
But I can't complain I got some motherfucking bitches
How many lab partners have I fucked since I got suspended?
Mr. Bennett, you done did it, you did it, you did it
You did a good ass job, you did a good ass job
And I'm good
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Work, work, work, work, bang nigga, bang
Twerk, twerk, merge, swerve, dang, pick a lane
Flip a bird; pigeon, plane, it's a word, it's a shame
But God I'm good, swear I couldn’t be better
Kicking dirt on the shirts of the lames
Keep a tab on my exes, keep some "x" on my tongue
Keep my work out in Texas, that's just me flexing my lungs
See them showing they teeth, that's just them flapping they gums
If they bite and I'm snapping, clap clap collapsing they lungs
Call me Chancellor The Rapper, please say "The Rapper"
Magical word (poof), please say 'Kadabra
Replay the replays; Green Bay, the Packers
Cremate your teammates and freebase the ashes
Matches to gas leaks, dusted dusk till dawn
It's just us, and trust ya bottom bitch, my stuff the fucking bomb
I'm the motherfucking fucker, fuck a niggas fucking dumb
This your favorite fucking album, I ain't even fucking done
I'm good! IGH!
[Hook]


[Verse 1]
Who do you call when your dreams don't call back?
Or is being famous supposed to solve that?
I had to walk when they told me I crawl back
How hard do you fall when you never plan to fall back?
A dream differed dies and shrivels
Every dream dies a little
I lost my rainbow when my skittles fell short
Chicken Little gave me my weather report
Cause now the sky is falling
The sky is falling
Tears are falling
Eyes are bawling
These dreams on my back, I swear they weigh a ton
So I left them to dry up with the raisins in the sun, one
[Interlude 1]
When me and Justin were in our sophomore year of high school, we were, um, approached with a proposition from one of the friends of Jay Brown, who's a huge producer at Roc-a-Fella, and me and Justin were completely excited. Um, got together all our music, sent it in to my mans. Um, so excited, he listened to the first two tracks and said... we weren't good enough. It stings. When you have in your head the idea or the thought that you're inferior. That your music, or whatever you put your heart into, is not good enough. We revolt against that thought. This is the product of a revolution
[Verse 2]
Wake up sweatin', wettin' my forehead
Poor bed, it just witnessed torture
He's in the bed right there
Waking up made the difference
Between a dream and a nightmare
He was rocking a crowd of a million
Now I'm staring at the ceiling,
 concealing the stars
And now I'm leaking at the eyes
Wishes he could close them and the dreams would free [?]
Giving up brings dreams demise
When they leave, there are no good goodbyes
You're standing where children cry
Where they scream, "why?"
You're standing where dreams die
[Interlude 2]
Since that time, me and Justin have comprised over fifty songs for our third album, Good Enough. We want, not only to free ourselves of that thought, but to let everyone out there who has heard that know, you're not just good enough, you are simply amazing. So, I want everybody, who's ever had that thought, to find whatever person, whatever group, society, or person over you. I want you to grab that person and ask them - look into their eyes and ask them - "Am I good enough now?"
[Verse 3]
What's the point of scouts
To make their talents doubt their talent?
Hit their lungs
Make them breathe without air
I'm trying to amount to
The height of the highest mountain
If every role model
To every Augie Farks out there
Try to make tracks sell by
Making every sell by
Changing up the style and repressin' the swell, God
But it's depressing to sell knifes
To a country that's been backstabbed
And peeled back scabs and ransacked
I guess I'll just be good enough
I guess I'll just be good enough


[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Who do you call when your dreams don't call back?
But being famous s'posed to solve that
I had to walk when they told me I'd crawl back
How hard can you fall when you never plan to fall back?
A dream differ dies and shrivels
Every dream dies a little
I lost my rainbow when my skittles fell short
Chicken Little gave me my weather report
Cause now the 
 is falling
The sky is falling
Tears are falling
Eyes are bawling
These Dreams on my back
I swear they weigh a ton
So I left them to dry up
With raisins in the sun, one
[Break 1]
When me and Justin were in our sophomore year of high school
We were um approached with a 
 from
One of the friends of J Brown, who's a huge producer at Roc-a-fella
And me and justin were completely excited
Got together all of our music
Sent it into him and, so excited, he listened to the first two tracks and said
"We weren't good enough"
It stings
When you have in your head
The idea, the thought
That you're inferior, that your music or whatever you put your heart into
Is not good enough
We revolt against that thought
This is a product of a revolution
[Verse 2]
Wake up 
 my forehead
Poor bed it just witnessed torture
He's in the bed right there
Waking up made the difference
Between a dream and a nightmare
He was 
 the crowd of a million
Now I'm staring at the 
Concealing the stars
And now i'm winking at the eyes
Wishes he could close them
And dreams would bring prize
Giving up brings dreams demise
When they leave there are no good goodbyes
You're 
 where children cry
Where they scream why?
You're standing where dreams die
[Break 2]
Since that time, me and justin
Have comprised over 50 songs for our third album, Good Enough
We want not only to free ourselves of that thought
But to let everyone out there who has ever heard that
Know you're not just good enough, you are simply amazing
So I want everybody, who's ever had that thought
To find whatever person, whatever group society or person over you
I want you to grab that person and ask them, look into their eyes and ask them
Am I good enough now?
(Don't be 
Our love is true
You can tell by the way
I'm looking up
Maybe I'm just tired
Tired of never knowing..
Cause you know I'm not good enough
I know I'm not good enough
I know I'm not good enough
I know I'm not good enough, for you)
[Verse 3]
Yo, What's the point of scouts they too make their talents doubt their
, hit their lungs make them breathe in without air
I'm trying to amount it, the height of the highest 
In bed with role model that every Augie Farks out there
Trying to make tracks sell by
Making every sale by
Changing up the style
And repressing the swelter
But its 
 to 
 knives
To a country thats been backstabbed
And peel back scabs and ransacked
I guess i'll just be good enough
I guess i'll just be good enough
Yeah I know I'm not good enough
I know I'm not good enough
For you


Okay now pop
Uh huh
Back and forth then stop, then drop
Uh huh
Bring it back to the top, don't stop
Green light, don't stop
[Verse 1: Brian Fresco]
Nigga like me don't chase no hoes
Smoke then it's back to the lab I go
Shorty in my ear tryna wife Fresco
Hell no, can't go, gotta wife my dough
This to the hoes for the days I owe
Still love a nigga if a nigga go broke
56 for the clothes, stripper pole for the show
Let's go to the mall, no we got to drive slow
We grooving, grooving
She's so exclusive, 'sclusive
She stay persuing
But my nigga tryna tell me she choosing, choosing
Like what she doing, doing
The way she move it, move it
Got a nigga into it
Might lay down make this music, music
Like, murder was the case on the pussy of the killer
She's so good, got her rolling up my swisher
With a broke nigga so you know I had to fix her
Couldn't leave her with a issue, got me harder than a missile
Like late night visions got her sending naked pictures
Showing all my niggas like nobody fucking with her
Knowing all them lame niggas in the air tryna get her
But she looking for that Fresco nigga that can heal her like
[Hook: Brian Fresco]
Green light, green light, shorty giving that green light
Pictures all on my screen like, shorty giving that green light
Green light, green light, tripping offa that bean like
Hands all in her jeans like, green light, green light
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Tick tick tick
Bout time you get, get, get
Your quick, quick, quick
Back rub in bath tub
Biting your lip, your lip
You've been doing your shit, your shit
You tired, real
Tighten your hips, your hips
Let me stretch you out
She be steady saying
Just got offa work
Ooh baby it hurts
Just do me first
Make it feel all good
Let me take off your shirt
Just do it it works
And I'm tired as fuck
Make it feel all good
[Hook]
Okay now pop
Uh huh
Back and forth then stop, then drop
Uh huh
Bring it back to the top, don't stop
Green light, don't stop


[Intro: Caleb James]
Coach K, what up big dog?
Kobe, Juice
[Verse 1: Caleb James]
Boy you fucking with that peg money bank mob
Keep on flashing all that money get your bank robbed
I'm sitting on 24's, new paint job
I call your baby mama up and get a crank job
Your bitch bad man I'm talking Kim Porter fine
And she bust it wide open like a Jordan sign
I'm steady posted up with my nigga [?]
We getting so much bread the feds think we serving 8-balls
If a nigga out of line, put him in his place
If a nigga talking shit, sock him in his face
See me in the club wilding and I'm going hard
Two fingers in the air, SaveMoney Squad
Blowing on them trees, bad bitch double D's
Niggas popping triple C's and we saving all the fees
I got pimps, I got gimps, in the booth I'm the truth
Take a couple shots of Henny, know that get a nigga loose
[Hook: Chance the Rapper and Caleb James]
These niggas out here working, these niggas out here chilling
She twerking for a living, and working is a killing
And a dime up in my pocket, got hundreds in my ceiling
That stunner shit is dead, cause savior man [?]
Cause ain't nobody grinding hard like me x5
[Verse 2: Tris J]
Tris mane gonna get 'em, keep a box of toothpicks with him
I put 30 on your mama, couple big ones on my woman
Going harder than your denim, Caleb got me grilling
We be doing what they hate doing, better known as women
Honies want to freak me, man I swear I love it
I just him 'em on site, swear they never see my covers
Tris mane got 'em by the dozen, ask your second cousin
She say, "fuck you talking bout?"
He keep it cracking, popping bubbly
So y'all better watch y'all girls, one of y'all in pearls
Boy I get ahold of them hoes, got 'em wetter than y'all girls
This one off, Savemoney in the clique
LA swag, blowing cookie in the whip
[Hook: Chance the Rapper and Caleb James]
[Verse 3: Brian Fresco]
Super stupid stupid fruity ooey gooey loud
I be moving, truly cruising, bitches grooving in the crowd
Think your booming? Man my niggas we be serving by the pound
George Gervin with the loud, finger flip the bird with style
Ugh these niggas ain't counting no chips, ain't got no bricks
On my soul, you fuck niggas ain't really on shit, got niggas with clips
That's on my soul, my home, my home
Said I put that on my mind, my dome
Motherfuckers can't grind like me
I'm in my zone, on my own, me and Caleb on patron
Finna cop a redbone so the team can get blown
I be gone, bitches all in my phone
Talking 'bout this land I own
On my slow, niggas run Chicago
[Hook: Chance the Rapper and Caleb James]


[Produced by Zak Fox Jablow and Tree]
[Intro]
Hey Ma, hey Ma, hey Ma
Hey Ma, hey Ma, hey Ma
[Verse 1]
I said 'Hey Ma', don't go stretching your wallet
These niggas gotta pay me for taking a year from college
Go on get ya nails polished, stylist for your eyelids
And a pilot for your mileage for them frequent flights to your island
Ms. Brown and Ms. Polleck
, 
little boy done grown up
Little voice done blown up
, 
middle-class that bonus
Hey Ma, Hey Mama Jan; God just gave me another chance
Rod just gave me another line, probably gave me another fan
7-7-3, Oh, since Kanye was a three-old
Down the street from D. Rose, was practicing his free-throws
Shout out to that Gulf Shrimp, shout out to King Gyro
Shout out that Ms. Moody, auntie Toni them my heroes
[Hook]
We gon' get this paper, put that on my mama
You gon' see us laid up, put that on my mama
Monica and Ava, thanks for all the favors
Got my money saved up
, 
put that on my mama
X2
[Verse 2]
Hey Ma, hey Ma I know I never did behave a lot
Never got good grades a lot
And turned your hairs to grays a lot
And go in stores and take a lot
And never shopped but saved a lot
So you ain't gotta shop at Save A Lot
And you ain't gotta worry about Chase a lot
They playing with your checks, your shit
Cause they gonna take your pay or not
Que Sera
 
gotta dance
, 
fuck them niggas you smarter than
We just gonna beg your pardon them
Save Money, my patna dem
I'm part of them, It's part of me
This Save Mula
, Bo squad III
I'm riding around my side of town
Hot boxing no cops around
I had the tux I had the gown
Just had a show, just had to bounce
It's Chance ho,
 
#10Day
Chano no hable englais
That language be that chanish but ooh! Muy caliente
So she just gonna throw her steps on
And haters gonna throw that epsom
And we just gonna throw a party
And I'm gonna just throw my teflon
Cause family be that blood though
And I ain't even flexin
But twin bro be that Victor
And Big Cuz be that Chef Sean
[Bridge] x2
I said don't stop, being what you be
Doing what you do, don't stop being you
[Hook]
[Outro]
Ayo I wanna thank, MC Tree mama
I wanna thank Fox mama, I wanna thank Robbie mama
Lili mama, Peter mama
MY mama, my dad mama
Your mama, I wanna thank moms
I wanna thank, L-Boog mama, I wanna thank Tom Fool mama
I wanna thank, Talent mama, Marcus mama
I wanna thank,
 
Thelonious mama
, 
Vic mama,
 
Reese mama
I just wanna, I wanna thank anybody whose been a mother to a motherless child
I love you mommy
10Day
I hope y'all had a good time
IGH!


[Intro]
I say I love you
And I've said more
My one and only
I can't lose no, no
[Verse 1]
Hey Ma, Hey Ma I know I never did behave a lot
Never got good grades a lot
And turned your hairs to grays a lot
And go in stores and take a lot
And never shopped but saved a lot
So you ain't gotta shop at Save A Lot
And you ain't gotta worry about Chase a lot
They playing with your checks, your shit
Cause they gonna take your pay or not
Que Sera, gotta then, fuck them niggas you smarter than
We just gonna beg your pardon them
Save Money
, my partner and them
I'm part of them, It's part of me
This Save Mula, Bo Squad at three
I'm riding around my side of town
Hot boxing no cops around
I had the tux I had the gown
Just had a show, just had to bounce
It's Chance ho, #10Day
Chano no hable englais
That language be that chanish but ooh!
 
Muy caliente
So she just gonna throw her steps on
And haters gonna throw that epsom
And we just gonna throw a party
And I'm gonna just throw my teflon
Cause family be that plug though
And I ain't even flexin
But twin bro be that Victor
And Big Cuz be that Chef Sean


[Verse 1: Kami de Chukwu]
Fuck ‘em, beat ‘em up, cuff ‘em
All up in that wagon where them boys done chucked ‘em
Chocolate, 
took a nigga wheels just for puffin’
Locked him in a dungeon, always left his tummy rumblin, bubblin
Told him that he seen better days, the nightfall came but he dreamed a better way
And the thoughts on his mind always seemed to display
A scene of dismay on the screen that just play
All and all forever understand it’s never over
Sip that heavy liquor ‘til you feelin’ light all over
Drop a couple tracks ‘til them bitches bending over
And a bubble butt slut tricking out for your quota
Pimp, always let his cup runneth over
Simp, tearing up when they hearts broken
Him, never gave a fuck about all of that
Money, fam, and music and we here to save all of that
Savemoney baller raps, off the top them baller hats, dunkin’ on them smaller cats, poised to be the [?] raps
Snitches, bitches, who be all up at your soul
At your money, at your goals, at your dreams, at your gold
A nigga never fold, ‘cause he had to play his cards right
Surely you will shine bright when you step in limelight
Words of advice to my homies who be hustlin’
Every butter for my brother, never fuck with english muffins, cousin
Mama thought her son would be nothing
Turned a bunch of nothing to a whole lot of something
All he ever wanted was Mama’s sweet loving
A couple pies baked ready straight up out the oven
Got these fiends buzzing, lovin on the product
Savemoney like I’m serving sauce for the five buck
Throw them fives up, pay respect to my fam
Savemoney be the clan and Chicago be the land, God damn
How you count them thoughts off the treetops
Kept ‘em pumped up like an old pair of Reeboks
Shout my nigga Reese
, make ‘em buckle at they knee socks
One hitter quitters to the face, make them knees pop
So please stop, don’t do it
It’s off of the top, more often than not
I’m battling cops, in the studio strapped with my Glock
And I be moving with the Savemoney clan on the fly, ‘til I die
[Hook: Michael Anthony]
If you come from my home
You’ll probably catch me in the Windy, off some Sweets and some Remy
I don’t sleep, we be winning
If you come from my home
You know the opps on the rise
, 
when we see ‘em we say fuck ‘em, Savemoney still alive
If you come from my home
You’ll probably catch us on a train in a daze, 20 deep blowing loud at the lames
If you come from my home
Eyes scorched, jealous thoughts tryin' to [?] us
[Verse 2: Caleb James]
From the city where real gangsters wear they hat to the right
Little kids on the corner selling crack for the pipe
Where out of town rappers come and gotta tuck in they ice
But ain’t no other city better, I put that on my life
This for my niggas on the grind with a jab in they sock
For my nigga on the west side, hugging the block
Never been arrested, but I have no love for a cop
I had my hands on keyboards trying to be like my pops
So, you gon’ seen a real nigga, boy
Been had the bread before deal nigga
You see, I be chilling with them ill niggas
One call away and make you disappear like David Copperfield nigga
Pop then go vanish, holding my cannon for niggas that up [?]
I hope we out jam ‘em, Savemoney that’s the family
Know we do damage, five finger discount, you know they can’t stand us like
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
Mama mia, ooh I’m a dreamer, burn up this Fera, turn up this for [?]
Chance the Rapper, ooh Chance le Rapper
I speak France, Jones my alma mater
All that matters is mistakes and ladders
Slick snakes and comeups, 
mixtapes and chatter
Igh, pause
As our laughter, draft up my master, plan faster faster
Chance the rap master, 
Fax in my taxes, shows is my classes, drugs is my FAFSA
Kami de Chukwu, Modern day guru
Save monetary, my mama say [?]
Roost in the morn, sing through the yawns
I know your eyes heavy but rest when you’re gone
You say you save money, but say sunny nigga
They saying they need you, you stay then you left em, Igh
[Hook]
[Bridge: Vic Mensa]
We’re all lil niggas, got all lil triggers, done all got bigger
(If you come from my home)
Then let ‘em know you bout it nigga
If you from the Chi throw up your “C’s”
[Verse 4: Vic Mensa]
From my block to your block, from Hyde Park to O Block
I’m southside to Oak Street to downtown to dope spots
In the smoke lot, up in the murder scene
They say you make ‘em come true, they wanna come kill your dreams
They pullin bangers on you, now tell me what you gon’ do
Either you fight or you run, you either win or you lose
There too many options where they poppin’ If I’m gone before they [?] was a problem
I know I kiss a killer like I’m rocking right beside him
[?]
I’m dead every day, if you never risk it then you never finna get shit
I learned the bigger the role, the bigger the pot that you done pissed with
Teachers thought we was punks, back in school was the misfits
Used to serve in the days, after school I did the dishes
Shoutout to my boss who fired me on some bitch shit
And all the teacher’s who said I’d never get shit
[Hook]
[Bridge]


[Verse 1]
Yo! What's good for him?
Instrumentality's on how we good again
And we flipping out like the end of my brim
Tyna get that good so I throwin' a fit
Getting it in, livin' and win, reminiscin'
We could give a fuck about tomorrow's begin
So we [?] til they think that we residents
Posted on walls like Facebook messages
No more [?] ride to the Chi
Pull up the covers, open blinds, rise and shine
Me getting it in is like Mike in his prime
Over a dance battle like it's Mike in his prime
O and 1-on-1 against Mike in his prime
See what I'm implying is I'm simply on my grind
And I'mma keep on shinin' til the sun don't shine
Oops I guess you thought that the sun don't shine
So what up Reese, what up John, what up Zoe?
What up [Perry?], what up [Rach?], what up Zoey?
Simone, and anyone else I call 'homie'
Anyone who's not you can blow me, so
[Hook]
Yea, yea we home again
You can see that we home again
Best believe that we home again
Instrumentality, yea we home again
[Verse 2]
Yo, lookin' back on my life
Coulda had a nigga stoned, lot like Lot's wife
[?] these niggas master the limelight
They feelin' shocked like Ben Franklin's flying kite
I'm from a city where they steal from others
Where Cain made them able to kill my brothers
No lovin' in these seas, the opportunity chances
But Chance says, "ours ain't got shit on Kansas?"
I ain't from Brooklyn or Houstatlantavegas
My home is West [?] I used to roll me up bakers
Where me and Chris used to play X-men for Sega
The home of the haters and the betrayers that'll snake ya
I never touch the skies, I never touch the stars
Never been to NASA, I fuckin hate Mars
I'm as human as the come, I'm not rap's peace
But I put Chi on the map like Jean Baptiste
So give a round of applause, shoot a round to the stars
Gather around and give 'em pounds, cars
He stay with y'all through the lonely [sit?]
My name is Chano
 [J ?] and I'm home again
Sing it
[Outro]
Yea, we home again
Yea, best believe that we home again
Yea, you can see that we home again
Yea, instrumentality, yea we home again
Yea, you can see that we home again
Yea, best believe that we home again
Instrumentality, yea we home again


[Produced by Chance The Rapper & The Social Experiment]
[Intro]
Uh uh uh uh uh
IGH!
Nana naaaaa
Yup
Oooh!
Nanana
[Verse 1]
Young black boy
How he got the labels scared?
A&R's like "Chano, you ain't playin fair!"
You gon' set a bad example for the average bear
You a yogi, you should idle while in child's position
I be like, naw, these my sons this prenatal care
I'mma show em how to make it here and make it fair
Take it there they could kill me and I ain't gon' care
You is just an ankle weight, lighter than some angel cake
Sweeter than some maple syrup
, 
easier than ableton
Make a plate and make it player
Make em play it
Just don't count your sheep before they hatch
You chickens 'fore your eggs or eat your dinner 'fore you say your prayer
[Hook]
Back up in this bitch
I'm back up in this thaaang
I'm back up in this bitch
I'm back up in this bitch
I'm strapped up in this bitch
Get it crackin' in this bitch
I'm back up in this bitch
[Verse 2]
Young tactician
Just got my taxes finished
Beat the tortoise by a hair
In an '04 Ford Taurus
On a spare with a wax finish
Theres a lot of metaphors, you just lack vision
You just bad business
UH!
All your shit been lower case
Lower class, lower key
I'm the only minor minority in priority
Sippin' gin and tonic while I plot upon authority
Author of my horoscope,
 
feeling like the oracle
Ain't no rules, nigga
IGH!
[Hook]


[Hook: Adele]
From my hometown
Memories are fresh
From my hometown
Oooohh the people I've met
I don't want this in my world
I don't want this in my world
I don't want this to be this world
God wonders on how when
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
She say she wanna stay with the bloods and crips
Feel the front strips of inner city cliques
Where free cunt strips and young blood drips
And kids falls through the holes of hollow gun tips and
You wanna harm me, don’t try to call me
You ain’t gon’ bore me
Your slipping from my palm trees
Aw baby, baby please re-l-a-x
Together we about as fly as LAX
And, I don’t wanna hafta call you my ex
Well babe, I don’t wanna hafta call you collect
See, she say she got dreams to follow
How'm I ever be a man again she wants to be a model
My sunshine and light got stole away
Once the golden state took my gold away
Cali
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
You scold as you walk past him
No more truth laying we only talk sarcasm
Strutting, out there, need to be a model
Now you can catch me giving hickies to beer bottles
Get it? cause I’m kissing the neck, giving her heck
For whether not you give em respect
I know if you go, you just might blow
But if you leave, you can catch more than a cold
Bulimia, anorexia, you skip meals
You don’t make the cut, but that’s how your wrist feel
Conscript script slits in the hands of an actress
In the acting world you’ll find allies on the axis
You’ll find actresses in alleys on their backs
With directors giving oral in return for a practice
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Trees, trees please don’t leave
The trees will be changed, when it rains will they shelter you?
We was kissing under a tree when I fell for you
I thought that you was real
I guess I couldn’t tell the truth
Trees go knee deep in the dirt
They reach for the sky but they’re still down to earth
But you, you just leave like leaves in the autumn
Didn't think you would get on, get gone and just out them
Doubt them and reroute them not count them
I never leave you for the chance of an album
Your roots stay deeper, I can’t de-weed ya
I can’t walk away, away from this street uh
And, as bad as I wanna see you running back
I could never ever ever be your lumberjack
Cali
[Outro: Adele]
Oooohh
I don't want this my world
I don't want this my world
I don't want this to be this world
God wonders
All of my world
All my world yeah
All my world, all my world yeah


[Hook: Detail (Chance)]
You can look me in my face
I ain't got no worries (I ain’t word) x3
See them shroomies keep me up
So I ain't got no worries (I ain’t word) x3
You see money right there
Yeah that's (me) right there
Yeah that's (me) right there
And we ain't got no worries
You see pussy right there
Redbone mangos right there
See them shroomies right there
We ain't got no worries
[Verse 1]
D. Rose on that ass
That means back again
I hit my Zan so hard
Man, I've been practicing
I'm going straight to the league
And not by accident
Don't get your ass kicked in
I hoop in Shaq's and Timbs
Chit chat with
 
Chris Mintz-Plasse
And laugh at Jags and rims
T-T-Y-L-ing the labels
And L-O-L-ing their friends
Hello Hell and Heaven
You haven't heard the half of it
Have at it half happy
30-something-year old
Broke graduate
Over the wave like Du-rags
Getting paper like dude rap
19 making that
I could be damn near fucking Erykah Badu rap
Girbaud flow is too strapped
My screws loose, I'm too slapped
Just got this bitch too turnt
Just got my nose 2Pac'd
L.A Reid like whose that
Jimmy Iovine like whose that
Whole world like whose that
Whole hood like ‘dude ass’
I'm from little shorties with the shot up shirt
Where babies get kilt like a Scottish skirt
95-ing down the Ryan
And I'm flying, skirt
Keep asking if I'm trying
Nigga, I ain't word
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Unreluctant optimist
Most poppingest
Got popular
Try topping this
Triceratops
BJs from baby bopping bitches
Throat lozenges
Massaging it
No touching it
Okay, touch on it
But don’t rush on it
Ration it, passionate
While imagining me
Smashing it
Dash out at like 4:30
Hands smelling like potpourri
They ain’t giving my nigga no jury
So I don’t give no nigga no mercy
When my little fucking brother rap better than you
My shit get’s your girl way wetter than you
You rap veterans you
My nerdy brethren you
Stuff you in a fuckin locker, 10 day letterman you
You wanna jock me, jockers (AAH)
My style’s fathering you
I know it’s bothering you
Probably an anomaly
But it’s probably niggas that’s probably starving for new
Shit you could sound like
That’s that shit that I don’t like
But I ain’t really worried
I’m a wordy motherfucker
I could hurry
But I’m buried in her pussy from the last tape
[Hook}


[Produced by The Social Experiment]
[Verse 1]
It’s just me and la cucaracha tonight
Cold pizza with the hot Sriracha tonight
Apple TV, Comcast, don’t know what to watch-a tonight
Shoulda had ya when I had ya, now I wish I gotcha tonight
[Hook x2]
You can hit my line
If you ain’t on shit, if you tryna shmoke
[Verse 2]
I guess I'll file the cabinets, fix the disha washa, tonight (lot of activities)
Feed the fishes twist a swisha while I mix the pasta tonight (multitasking)
Tube socks white briefs gold wrista watcha tonight (fancy attire)
On the sofa posted perfect selfie picture posture tonight (Snapchat bitch)
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
This is not the castle this is just the casa tonight
Ain’t no Nala so my Simba ain't gon’ be Mufasa tonight
Only dust and shadows comin' from la cucaracha tonight
But if you eva in the hood like Mr. Rogers, hit my
[Hook]


[Verse 1]
Sometimes I lay flat and stare at the fuckin ceiling
Beg myself to trust religion
Though nothings simple as sinnin
When alone in my room
, 
I transcribe my anti's
Tried battlin my damn pride and lost by a landslide
Excuse the height of my pants, I
Hate to offend
Pretendin to give a fuck, while establishin where I stand
My guy.. push bars and grams, it's just supply and demand
Fuck drugs
I stay regrettin gettin high when I land
Don't make your fellow wrongdoers familiar..
Cause shit, the same nigga that kill witcha'll kill ya
We all lose it once, shit stop the violence
Cause we all come from one big drop
This Tribe shit is life changin
I'm tryna make some shit for the burbs
Without some city niggas trippin like "That shit for the birds"
I hit licks then dip we
Speedin down Dixie
It's real, fuck the shit that you heard..
[Hook: Chance The Rapper]
It's like fuck it, since most of our daddies done moved away
I been livin kinda grimy, just getting me through the day
Like checking yourself for leaks, when you're trying to hit a stain
There's only so much you can save and only so much you can take
, Aww
Fuck it.. Since most of our daddies done moved away
I been livin kinda grimy, just getting me through the day
Like looking over your parents, they tearing up through the wake
There's only so much you can save, and only so much you can take, aww
[Verse 2]
I heard my old shit was dull, touched with elegance
Stepped into my closet and skullfucked the skeletons
As well as what's been goin around
New fans, say that Kembe X BEEN goin to town
For shoe fans, come walk a mile inside my Varsity Blues
My new dance is 'the clown'..... CLOWNIN yo goof ass
Move slick, move fast
Sneak just so they can't see me
My green is Cabrini
My project should shoot past
We fuckin these tracks, the instrumentals got loose ass
My rearview show the ruins of them goofies I blew past
Must be maturation, movin up to a new class
Where doobies get blew fast
New work, new cash
Uh
I ain't sayin I got hate to harbor
I'm just here for what you owe me, and I hate to barter
Bitches nowadays is ungreatful
They love you then they hate you
Time to clean the slate nigga
[Hook]
[Outro (Genesis)]
"My mans Kembe said he'd like to make a shout out to..
The Village
Ambition Chicago
2008ighties
Savemoney
All his listeners...
Oh yeah, and everyone he's spoken to in the last month.. he fucks with you *laugh*"
(Kembe X)
"Self Rule"


[Produced by Ludwig Göransson]
[Intro]
Yeah yeah yeah yeah
Yeah yeah yeah yeah, yeah yeah yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah
Yeah yeah yeah yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah yeah yeah yeah, yeah yeah yeah, yeah, yeah
[Verse 1]
What's better than tripping is falling in love
What's better than Letterman, Leno, Fallon, and all the above
What's better than popping bottles trying to ball in the club
Is the first caveman pops with his son, ball and a club
What's better than paper is ballin' it up
What's better than followers is actually fallin' in love
What's better than frolicking, follies, fallin' in mud
Rolling in green pastures, wanderin', followin' love
What's better than eating is feeding your fam
What's better than meetings is missing meetings to meet with your fam
What's better than leaning and needing a Xan
Is hitting your zan dreaming a dream could mean leaving the land
What's better than yelling is hollerin' love
What's better than rhymes, nickels, dimes and dollars and dubs
Is dialing up your darling just for callin' her up
It ain't nothing better than fallin' in love
IGH!
[Hook]
I've seen it come back, back, back and forth
You hit the nail right on top of the head
I know you've seen it all before
But when it looks you in the eyes, it ain't nothin' you could say but "that's love"
That's love
That's love
That's love
Say that's love, ooh ooh
That's lo-o-ove
That's love
That's love, that's love, that's love
I LOVE you! (Love you)
I LOVE you! (Lo-o-ove!)
I LOVE you! (Love you)
I LOVE you! (Lo-o-ove!)
I LOVE you! (Love you)
I LOVE you! (Lo-o-ove!)
I LOVE you! (Love you)
I LOVE you! (Lo-o-ove!)
I LOVE you!
That's love
That's loooo-o-o-ove, that's love
Say that's love, ooh, ooh, that's love
That's love, that's love, that's love, that's love


Scorpion tattoo covers his shoulder
Sting of the tail leaves you colder
4 in the morning with Folgers
I was raised to be a soldier
And it's because of the help from my dad
I used to hate him for the welts on my back
But I love you chores, sweep up the floors
Under the couch and behind the doors
He taught me to stand on my own two
My teacher said "Oh he's a fan of the 
?"
I said "Naw, he's the principal
And he ain't scared of bullets, he's invincible"
And he taught me to look in the eyes of every grown man
Not as if you owe him but as if you own him
6 o'clock in the morning, yawning
Cause 
 don't sleep past dawn and we on it
Already doin' pushups in 
Thanks Pops for everything I have and what I ain't got
When I blow up like atom bombs I'mma spit it at 'em dumb
Fifty mil just between dad and moms
This is just hard, how many 
 did I give up just cause?
Not enough to match the plight of your own father sayin
"I gotta catch a flight, but you could tape it right?"
You could 
 or you could save a life
You could blame mommy or you could make it right
Everything that you taught me, I noted
The things, I quoted but the music, I wrote it
All a man has in this world is his word
And all I really want is a second to be heard
And I'm just searching for a witness
But this is my in the pen dance, uh!
This is my in the pen dance, uh!
This is my in the pen dance, uh!
Welcome to in the pen dance, uh!
This is my in the pen dance
This is my in the pen dance, uh!
[Trumpet solo: Nico Segal]


[Produced by Childish Gambino & Ludwig Göransson]
[Hook: Childish Gambino & Chance the Rapper]
All she needed was some... (x16)
[
Verse
 1: Childish Gambino]
At a Clippers game on the courtside
Watch a nigga shoot like a four-five
They mad at me too, I got more fire
When these bitches see you "Go home, Roger" (Go home, Roger)
Tia and Tamara in my bed, I'm a smart guy
I ain't fucking with you niggas like apartheid
Hits on my list, check my archive
I'm something so immaculate,
 
instead of asking what's happening
Rather blast a Jackson 5 in the back of an Acura
Acting blacker than a Bernie Mac, two Charlie Murphys and Akon
The girls that you brought man, where are they from?
Where are they from?
 
We were playing Playstation
Why you standing there, say some, girl, say some
No, this ain't a vacation, this is my house, my house
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Childish Gambino]
Bought a new bath, 8K, nigga
Wanna take shots? AK, nigga
When I ball, I'm-a ball King James, nigga
Uncle Ben in my hand, make change, nigga
And I'm out of this world like Tang, nigga
That's a space bar, man, I hate y'all
You only come around when you want to play pool in my hot tub
Ice cream paint job in the garage
I had a ménage, and murdered the vag'
But, afterwards, it was awkward as fuck
Cause I'm nervous as fuck and could not get it up
I-I-I-I-I need a minute, cold water to the face
I-I-I couldn't finish, got the Uber from her place
On my porch smoking vapor, hit with the Sunday paper
Listening to the neighbors...
[Hook]
[Outro]
Oh my God, oh my God, oh my God
Our neighbors, all alone, no no no no


[Produced by Nate Fox]
[Intro/Bridge]
Thirsty, thirsty, tryna choose
I mean, I know I'm pretty cool
My Nitty bag, my kitty boost
I got the juice, I got the juice
[Verse 1]
Chano, Chatham's own
Foolies glad I'm home
Even my haters kinda glad I'm on
Rest In Peace to my Vagabond
Rapper song, singer - suspended, subpoena
For misdemeanors, dreamer, held back ass is lowkey still a senior
And I still shake up BO Squad,
 
praying for my BroBois
City on the Come Up, shout that nigga Sosa!
Shout my nigga Fat Trel,
 
shout my nigga Joseph
Playing Buenos Aires while they sleepin' Buenas Noches!
Wonder if I wrote this cause it's so crisp
The most brokest cold stock broker winter solstice
I could win an Oscar, Russian Accent Husky
Acid addict, Costly avid Actor
Kevin Costner
[Interlude]
AHHHHHHHHH!!!!! TURN UP TURN UP!
[Hook x2]
Juice! (Juice!)
Juice! (Juice!)
Juice! (Juice!)
Juice! (Juice!)
I got the juice, I got the juice (YUP!)
[Verse 2]
God give me one sentence more
Maybe I just gotta get suspended more?
Hash tag it, get mentions for it
Make you love it, get it trending more
And then act humble
Hear some bull that some dude mumble
Wantin' to jump dude, but let that nigga punk you
Knowin bitch niggas wanna bring guns to the rumbles,
 
igh!
But I love y'all souls
Don't let the juice spill Pac!
Blue pill pop
Til you feel good enough to pop the popped bitch in the blue heels yop!
That one
 - 
drown in the juice nigga
Hunnid proof get found in a youth nigga
Stop with all the trynna introduce nigga
Everybody know you dude you the new nigga!
Hows it feel to be you? Yo no sé
I ain't really been myself since Rod passed
I ain't even really need that shop class
I ain't really been weak since pops smashed
I'm a genius, a mothafuckin pop smash
Hit sensei, master
Jack and Lindsey
, 
Wiley, Kembe
Been paid, 10 Day been they FAFSA
[Interlude]
AHHHHHHHHH!!!!! TURN UP TURN UP!
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Yup, JUUUUUUUGO
You never tasted paper
Tripped, racing yaself trynna chase the paper
I just faced a Vega
And you love being Kobe when you make the lay up
Till you realize everybody in the world fuckin hates the Lakers, Hahaha
And then everybody wanna sip
Til the juice spill everybody want a bib
And then everybody wanna dip
Told you I ain't worried, I ain't scared of the booth
All you can do is spit a verse of the truth
Merge the mixture with the purest and the fruits
And the thirst, just the worst, it's the curse of the juice!
[Hook + Bridge]
[Outro]
Juice, juice, juice, juice... yup!
Juice, juice, juice, juice... yup!


[Produced by Caleb James]
Chance The Rapper
Caleb
10 Day
Ohh! 
Igh!
[Hook]
She working that thang
She know she got it
Lil mama so bad
You know she naughty
Her do it so slow
Now watch her take it
She giving a show
Now watch her break it
[Verse 1]
Back it up like, "Juke Juke"
3, 4, "Juke Juke"
Hands on the tracks like Choo Choo
Can't nobody do it like you do
True, true
Mama sip a little bit of the screw juice
Or a little bit of that Special K
And throw it in the bowl like fruit loops
Hola, mami chula
Mami hol'up, mami slow up
'Scuse my french, my lingo
But I no hable cinco
Her girlfriends say they bout it, you know that I'm bilingual
And 
Chano
 
gonna mingle, I'm off a couple pintos
The bad hoes out on Saturday, it's church on domingo
So while they out her frontin' go on back it for your mans
Cause even when your friends actin' funny you gon' dance like
[Breakdown]
(
Juke
 
x26
)
Break it down
Chi-Town break it down
Chi-Town break it down
Break it down
Break it down
Chi-Town break it down
Chi-Town break it down
Break it down
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Bust it, bust it
Wide open, open
I been hopin', hopin' shorty goin' goin'
She from lowend oh an'
Went to Kenwood? Me too
Nah I'm lyin'
, 
she say she got somebody bitch
Me too
I hope that that shit do work out man
Cause this that new 'New Workout Plan'
And I'm that dude, you heard bout
And I hope that get your shirt off and if not
Keep on dancin' babe, all I need is that preview
Put you on the floor and show them niggas how to freak you
Slow whine, slow grind
On time, you can take your own time
But if I can't hit your ass on time
Gotta hit me online, you can't hit my phone line
[Breakdown]
[Hook]
[Breakdown]


[Intro]
What up Chance?
Man I heard the party was at your crib
(Yo that bitch down the street though, just walk like 2 blocks)
Hey man I see people in there jammin'
It's getting that juke energy
No that's not your cousin G
I see all the BO squad
, LOC down
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Welcome to the kick back, the last of the summer
The night 'fore we all go, we all gotta come up
You all gotta celebrate with class right in front
Grab a blunt of the loud and a glass with some rum-a
My momma's gone, so we about to get so gone
First get the swishes out, then get your roll on
Then get your roach out, we bought to burn a whole zone
Keep sparkin' up until you sitting on the ozone
Lot of hoes is dressed up but why the fuck they clothes on?
First get the liquor out, then get these hoes gone
E'rbody feelin' great, go and get your good on
But first get your bread out e'erbody and put on
Then get the fight night, go and get it crackin'
Why you gettin' mad then, it's just a little Madden
And then run a buddy for a little bit of beer pong
In front of shorty lookin' forward to the beer bong
How you this drunk man, you wasn't even here long
This night gotta last like the whole school year long
[Hook: Chance The Rapper]
We
lc
ome to the kick back, go 'head and kick back
Just keep my house clean before my momma get back
Keep on passing if you wasn't finna hit that
Go and pass the glass if you wasn't finna sip that
I'm just gonna sit back, find a girl to chit chat
Then find a diff spot so maybe we can dip sack
Dip off and as soon as we get back
Do it all over again
Welcome to the kick back
[Verse 2: Joey Davis]
Welcome to the kick back
Why you got the blunt in your hand my nigga split that
Why you show up if you ain't tryna get it in
Beggin' in my ear while we blown' in the wind
Chanceno mixing that juice after the gin
And I know it's strong but you gotta hold it in
And if you just gettin' here all the smoke is in the back room
Niggas hit the liquor store they should be comin' back soon
And this shit's a winner so my eyes are racoon
Me and Chance man this bitch it's finna be a rap soon
[Hook]
Welcome to the kick back
Welcome to the kick back
Welcome to the kick back
[Outro]
Eh man Chance, let me in this party though
Some fuckin' loud
(Was this 3 dollars? What is this)
Naw man, boy, this was 30 dollar boy
(You paid 30 dollars for a fan sack?)
Naw man that's the loud, you finna be gone


[Chance the Rapper]
She got them bitches laced up tight as-tight as hell
[Vic Mensa]
Ooh shit [?]
Ooh that shit hot
Ooh shit [?]
[Chance the Rapper]
Them shits is FILAs
Look here
[Hook: Chance the Rapper & Vic Mensa] x4
Oh shit, look at that bitch
That bitch got on K-Swiss
[Verse 1: Alex Wiley]
Oh shit, my nigga look at that bitch
That bitch got on K-Swiss
That bitch got some K-Swiss
That bitch got some K-Swiss
My homie told me shoot the shot
And now I'm finna take it
Every freakin' night
Every freakin' day
I wanna freak you, baby
In every freakin' way
Every freakin' day
Every freakin' night
I wanna freak you, girl
Your body's so freakin' tight
[Hook] x25


[Hook: James Blake & Chance the Rapper]
Part time love is the life 'round here
We're never done
Now we’re at square one
Life ain't been 'round here in a minute
Here ain't been 'round my whole life
And we waited too long
Chaos been 'round for a minute
Marketed, bottled it up
But wear that fake smile like a cape
Save yourself first, save yourself first
[Verse 1: James Blake]
Part time love is the life 'round here
We're never done
Everything feels like touchdown on a rainy day
Part time love is the life 'round here
We're never done
Everything feels like touchdown on a rainy day
Now we’re at square one
And we waited too long
So we’re back to square one
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Why every time I land in London, land of Lincoln all on my mind?
 
(IGH)
I plan to plane it back after playin' a packed show in due time
I'm 'round about I bought a round of English ale for my pals
A bouncer sold a ounce of rubbish weed to me for like 200 pounds
I think my english's getting real real bad
Cause this dumb bitch said I'm real real bad
No sprechen sie Dumb but I'm real, real good
Dark skinned Mike but I still feel bad
I'm a chill pill addict
I wonder if God's still magic
I wonder if Nas stillmatic
Down under the north it's still havoc
Why I run around wonderin', wanderin', ponderin' life
Life 'round here, when
Life ain't really been 'round here in some times
Sometimes it's no one 'round here
[Hook]
[Outro: Chance the Rapper & James Blake]
I ain't been 'round here in a minute
But you ain't been 'round a whole lot
My flesh went through the peoples in this peephole
And sealed the keyhole and kept the door locked
Part time love is the life 'round here
And wear that fake smile like a cape
Save yourself first, save yourself first
Part time love is the life 'round here
We're never done...
Save yourself first


[Chance The Rapper]
I wanna kiss you on your band-aids
Wanna make you a house that's manmade
I want you as my bandmate
Let's collab but not really in music
Let's make jokes that's not really amusing
Let's make amends thats not really a movement
Let's make kids - that's not really a rap line
Let's make it seem like love lasts longer than life
And make believe thats not really a flatline
Make new words for love and old uses for Kodaks
Look through throwbacks like
You should grow your fro back
Let's get old together and never go back
To a life, to a world where we are both cats
Fall in love with your wrinkles
You'll never be single
I know that you think you'll be loose in this world
You, Always will twinkle
My star, I'm your Ringo
Play old people bingo
You beautiful girl
[Hook x4]
Love won't you fall asleep in my arms
While I read you these poems
I wrote you so long ago
[Milo]
In our ninth life
We fall and fail to land on our feet
But we beyond skin, what's a tombstone?
What's a love poem if not a pair of wings?
An anecdote for the hourglass, a cure for ticking in our veins
We rise above pain, the threat of times scissor blade
And I am unafraid
I know I've found a resting place in your arm's cave
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Lorine Chia]
I've been livin' in vain
What can I say?
Just to make it go away
And to take away the pain
I've been crying to much
Wasting my time
 
(wasting my time)
Oh, shedding all these tears
Instead of taking what is
 
mine
I've been asking God, "Why?" (why)
Why am I here?
What am I to do?
While I'm only filled with fear
[Hook]
Time and time again I'm gone
Who would know it'd last this long?
Time and time again I'm gone
Who would know it'd last this long?
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Skip, skip, skip class, whip-less, with pass
Whiplash, deadbeats, skipped out, skipped dads
Dipped fast... me too
Little nigga, real big agenda
Teachers just holding me up
It's in my genes, suspenders
 (Ohh-Kay)
Livin' life on a ledge, peakin' over the edge
Thinkin' bout fallin' while dreamin' bout flyin'
No Se
When I'm gone get that bread
How long I could hold my breathe
Been schemin' about ballin' while starvin' and dyin'
You think I'm reckless
Just because I'm with the shits
Just because I quit the class
And I still can't quit the cigs
I know it's hard to think
That's why you niggas want to sing too
That song look just like my shit, dawg
Come on, I used to have stains too
I used to lick lames too
I'm a lot more worried about flights now
Keepin' lawyers paid right now
Gettin' rights to the shit that I write down
Keep your head up son
It's either a migraine or an aneurysm
These catchy anecdotes, analyzing adolescent adaptation of good mannerisms
IGH!
[Verse 3: Lorine Chia]
What can I say?
Just to make it go away
And to take away the pain
I've been crying to much
Wasting my time (wasting my time)
Oh, shedding all these tears
Instead of taking what is mine
I've been asking God, "Why?" (why)
Why am I here?
What am I to do?
While I'm only filled of fear
[Hook]


[Produced by Mr.Porter]
[Hook]
I rain, I rain, I rain, I rain
[Verse 1: Rapsody]
Penny for a beggar, beg to differ
These just my lonely thoughts that sometimes get off with some liquor
So I don't drink so much no more
 
at war wit my own picture
What you thought it was? Cuz I ain't perfect as the dove in scriptures
Tight as two sisters but my favorite color black
They say the color purple royal soil on my back
From the war that I been fighting just to make it off the map
I was waiting for the sun to set, they intrigued with my black
I guess the pitch is like my soul
Worn out just like my Fo's
I took the blue pill yesterday
The key to all my goals
Going over songs we like and songs we don’t
Don't wanna fall short as the gnomes
 
and I have yet to visit Rome
24 inches how we used to dream of chrome
Last year my sister moved from New Orleans and she ain't need no loans
We light up like the scones when talkin money trees
How you don't eat pork but smoke holy on tobacco?
 
Weed
I never breath
, 
another breed, Q, Phife, Ali Shaheed
Check the rhyme
 
It's just my time to kill It like the purge this spring
Deep as the valleys in the Philippines and up in Cali
They say this tape is like an album
Threw one in the galaxy all for free
Magna carter I been part of
My independent ass motherfucker they couldn't water
Down look around the takeover dun took over
And we been doing shit that you average rapper can't shoulder
So, what's next I suspect your death
Welcome to the game where we trained to never follows refs
Lot of great players, but we as better as a team
You learned that watching Miami and the spurs just this spring
Scary as the ring in the well
On the scale I weigh like the Bronson or Adele
I'm shell as full jacket metal
Madame I replicated the summer of Sam
, damn
Kill at ran-damn (random) Im like Van Damm stuck in a dam
Damn, who is the killa? Wit agility
Flow bend like that around Anguilla
Got the skill of thriller
Came from underground to get a mill or Two
Everyday I've wrote, it seemed to wanna rain a few
I guess I'll reign for you, Philly to NY
Just to wet you up I’m tear ducts to a dry eye
My my what he told me reciting OBI, Kenobi
“you'll be the death of me solely”
I told him showly, I agree I'm Ali, cross um like Doji
Sting like wasps I serve um losses they lowley
Call me young achilles cuz I snap on these like Kobe Now
Back to talking bout my day it went smoothly
I woke up hella early, last night watched a movie
And compared it to my life like 2-D boobies, the come up, like the sun up, when ya son up mornings crying for juices
Adolescents
Never stress um
Developed I bless um
Denaun thanks for the blessing
One of the best in the game
I still remain
, outside still writing in the rain, I reign
[Bridge: Chance the Rapper]
Why don't you come home at night no more, no more
Why can't you see past a thing, no more
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Yeah I see the gun but it's a pellet
Yeah the ball is in your court, but it's appellate
They sayin Acid was an album retail it
I said I got way too much soul for me to sell it
That's why 
godfather
 
tied the cape on my shoulders
Said save em from false prophets and wolves in sheeps' clothing
I'm a little too hard to be slept on
I'm a little too sharp to be stepped on
A little too Pac for the septum
I'm so pretty I make mirrors blush
I spit the shit in a party to make your ear adjust
I'm a parapalegic parrot with a pair of crutches in a no fly zone
On the phone talking bout how Bush trying to disparage us
There's a metaphor if I expound
There's a better score in the next round
Me and raps go together like donuts and fresh ground
Coffee,
 
I'm awfully softly spoken
In Autumn, fall leaf clovin
My posters on dry wall 
and my banners are star spangled
My demons get charred, mangled, Chancelor the Archangel
I don't pray for chart singles
I grab life by the ankle like Kurt Angle
And ask it if it's ticklish
Ask me if that's ridiculous
I'm a meticulous fickle dude
That just happens to spit a little bit
And you can tell I rapped this off my phone
Cause you can hear that ringtone in the background but I'm in the zone


[Produced by Mr. Porter]
[Hook]
I rain, I rain, I rain, I rain
[Verse 1: Rapsody]
Penny for a beggar, beg to differ
These just my lonely thoughts that sometimes get off with some liquor
So I don't drink so much no more at war wit my own picture
What you thought it was? Cuz I ain't perfect as the dove in scriptures
Tight as two sisters but my favorite color black
They say the color purple royal soil on my back
From the war that I been fighting just to make it off the map
I was waiting for the sun to set, they intrigued with the black
I guess the pitch is like my soul
Worn out just like my Fo's
I took the blue pill yesterday
The key to all my goals
Going over songs we like and songs we don’t
Don't wanna fall short as the gnomes and I have yet to visit Rome
24 inches how we used to dream of chrome
Last year my sister moved from New Orleans and she ain't need no loans
We light up like the scones when talkin money trees
How you don't eat pork but smoke holy on tobacco? Weed
I never breath, another breed, Q, Phife, Ali Shaheed
Check the rhyme It's just my time to kill It like the purge this spring
Deep as the valleys in the Philippines and up in Cali
They say this tape is like an album
Threw one in the galaxy all for free
Magna carter I been part of
My independent ass motherfucker they couldn't water
Down look around the takeover dun took over
And we been doing shit that you average rapper can't shoulder
So, what's next I suspect your death
Welcome to the game where we trained to never follows refs
Lot of great players, but we as better as a team
You learned that watching Miami and the spurs just this spring
Scary as the ring in the well
On the scale I weigh like the Bronson or Adele
I'm shell as full jacket metal
Madame I replicated the summer of Sam, damn
Kill at ran-damn (random) Im like VanDam stuck in a damn
Damn, who is the killa? Wit agility
Flow bend like that around Anguilla
Got the skill of thriller
Came from underground to get a mill or Two
Everyday I've wrote, it seemed to wanna rain a few
I guess I'll reign for you, Philly to NY
Just to wet you up I’m tear ducts to a dry eye
My my what he told me reciting OBI, Kenobi
“you'll be the death of me solely”
I told him showly, I agree I'm Ali, cross um like Doji
Sting like wasps I serve um losses they lowley
Call me young achilles cuz I snap on these like Kobe Now
Back to talking bout my day it went smoothly
I woke up hella early, last night watched a movie
And compared it to my life like Tootie boobies, the come up, like the sun up, when ya son up mornings crying for juices
Adolescents
Never stress um
Developed I bless um
Denaun thanks for the blessing
One of the best in the game
I still remain, outside still writing in the rain, I reign
[Bridge: Chance the Rapper]
Why don't you come home at night no more, no more
Why can't you see past a thing, no more
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Yeah I see the gun but it's a pellet
Yeah the ball is in your court, but it's appellate
They sayin Acid was an album retail it
I said I got way too much soul for me to sell it
That's why godfather tied the cape on my shoulders
Said save em from false prophets and wolves in sheeps' clothing
I'm a little too hard to be slept on
I'm a little too sharp to be stepped on
A little too Pac for the septum
I'm so pretty I make mirrors blush
I spit the shit in a party to make your ear adjust
I'm a parapalegic parrot with a pair of crutches in a no fly zone
On the phone talking bout how Bush trying to disparage us
There's a metaphor if I expound
There's a better score in the next round
Me and raps go together like donuts and fresh ground
Coffee, I'm awfully softly spoken
In Autumn, fall leaf clovin
My posters on dry wall and my banners are star spangled
My demons get charred, mangled, Chancelor the Archangel
I don't pray for chart singles
I grab life by the ankle like Kurt Angle
And ask it if it's ticklish
Ask me if that's ridiculous
I'm a meticulous fickle dude
That just happens to spit a little bit
And you can tell I rapped this off my phone
Cause you can hear that ringtone in the background but I'm in the zone
[Verse 3: Big K.R.I.T.]
I can't call this rapping, more like relapsing
Don't feel like talking if you metaphorically speaking
My nigga told me all those similes that don't be reaching
And those beats you rather sequence are leaving
We should be preaching teaching kids something
Maybe the ones and twos or how you flew the coup
During duck season
We out here dying like everyone said motherfuck breathing
The hood ain't known for angels so motherfuck grieving
Who can we trust either?
Well I can't trust neither, friend or foe
Cause it sure as the rise of sun they'll cut you like ninja swords
Beware of the drunken masses that tattled by business woes
For the very villains that you hone your skills of killing for
The Geishas that you favour pretend like they love your kind
Rather piece of your kingdom than a piece of your mind
In a world of sightseers, love is blind
These lonely thoughts pass the time on my way to Zion


[Hoodie: spoken]
Hi, can I talk to Teresa?
Oh, this is her mom?
Oh, you Mother Teresa?
Aw, I like that
[Bridge: Hoodie]
Don't you tell me that it's all right
Because I'm anticipating a long night
[Verse 1: Hoodie]
Man
I've been up so damn early that I'm sleepwalkin'
Now my eyes are looking like Macaulay Culkin's
Watch me roll around the city like I'm Steve Hawkins
These bitches Waka flock to us when we walk in
They wanna act like it's a big deal, Ron Burgundy
I'm underground but I'm poppin' up commercially
I keep it buzzing like I'm a motherfuckin' worker bee
So I'mma need a couple Gs if you want a verse with me
So let me take your pay check
Now you gotta find another way to pay rent
Your life sucks like the Ravens
You ain't been on a date yet
I take your girl to dinner
Then go home and have some great sex
Yeah, this gon' be a long night
I guarantee it, we probably gon' see the sunlight
Before our eyes wide shut
 
I'mma make a couple bucks
And a couple hundred drinks, we about to turn it up, like...
[Hook: Hoodie]
Don't you tell me that it's all right
Because I'm anticipating a long night
Ooh, woah
Grab a Corona and pass out in the tub
And when I wake up everything will be alright, alright
[Verse 2: Hoodie]
Yeah, I keep on running 'til I'm red up in the face
Had a party at the crib, everyone was hella grate-ful
Wait a minute, got a bedroom full of strangers
I ain't talking Danny Granger, but I'm running out of Pacers
I mean patience, nah, nothing can phase us
I know you say your name but, my mind was on vacation
Can't track that down, too many chasers
I can't pack that crowd, too many lame-sters
So let's just kick it in the back of my apartment
Or at Madison Square Garden, we could go and watch the Rangers
Central Park where we could go until it's dark
And when somebody try to stalk you I just keep you out of danger
So come to the crib just hop in Benz first
I'm after the cat, but I don't mean Chesire
Uh, shout out to Pat, he look like a Hemsworth
I'm kickin' it with Chance so baby don't say the N-word, shwoop!
[Hook: Hoodie]
[Spoken: Chance]
Chance? The rapper?
 
Igh!
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Ashin Ls in a hotel sink
Management swears that the hotel stink
Whole time I'm yellin hold up a minute while the doorbell rings
When old coke glistening on my nose earring
And niggas just tryna function 'til a nigga can't function
And the weed so pungent that I probably won't punch it
And imported in punches and they actin' inpugnant
With a rock and a pin and they say pin I'm actin' 100
And I turn up turn up turn up
Get high burn up burn up burn up
I'm fucked up and she's fucked up and
We not gon' remember tonight so
Let's fuck in a Wendy's bathroom
Get frosty, forget the Sprite
[Hook: Hoodie]


[Produced by Beirut]
[Verse 1]
I wonder if Gladys smiles when angels bring my name up
Or change language and subject change up
Her boy’s a long way from red dolls and green rangers
Things ain’t been the same since Ms. Patterson called me famous
I saw your reflection in a toilet full of vomit water
You don’t think I felt ya hand on my head yelling “call his father”
But people don’t hear ghosts
So how they gon' blame me
Money saved me
So I’ma do the same thing
You droppin pounds, gettin small on some sick shit
Like how you got the drive but don’t know how to use a stick shift
You better not miss this
Over dose, dope and mixes
Let ya throat close
With a boatload of dope quotes within it
[Break]
Blast off
[Verse 2]
Dropping tapes 'til I losted count
Coughing out blood
Dropping weight
Like I lost an ounce
Throwing words and tossing nouns
NY traveling I’m Boston bound
Bossing 'round homies
And talking down to shorties while I’m jotting down
Notes to spit to Harlem crowns
Surfing through the Harlem crowds
At the crib I’m falling down
Yeah, I'm steady crawling 'round
I’m calling out to God
Your little angels falling down
Save me from my darkened cloud
Reach your hands and arms around
[Sample]
Oh non je t'en prie, nous ne sommes pas chez nous
Oh je t'assure que ce n'est pas grave
Non laisse moi!
Mais qu'est-ce que tu as aujourd'hui?
J'ai que les hommes me dégoûtent. Vous ne pensez qu'à ça
[Hook (Chance the Rapper)]
Well it’s been a long time, long time now
Since I’ve seen you smile
And I’ll gamble away my fright
And I’ll gamble away my time
And in a year, a year or so
This will slip into the sea
Well it’s been a long time, long time now
(Oh it’s, Oh it’s been so long)
Since I’ve seen you smile
(It’s been so long)
[Bridge: Chance]
Said it’s been a long time, long time now, now, now
Said it’s been a long time, long time now
And it’s been a long time, long time now


[Verse: Chance The Rapper]
Whether its reed or is ligature
I literally read the sheet like it’s literature
I’m from the miniscule the miniature
I don’t understand whatever this or that means
Means my skills is limited
But y’all ain’t hurting me I swear that I’m Hercules
Mixed with a bit of Freddie Mercury
Mixed with a little Kanye and a little MJ
Hella Ken Bennett and a little mommay
And I’m still that kid teachers thought that wouldn’t make it
I’m still that oreo that y’all niggas wouldn’t play with
I’m still that friendly, Tru said that wasn’t your friend
When they laughed and teased asking “why you hang out with him?”
And I’m still Ms. [Macs?] pet peeve
With words above yours that you would not believe
And I’m still [Ms. Nasner?] and a little McHenry
All of them must think I’m still the only memory
So let me get at them though
Let me spit at them cause
If I spit at ‘em I just might split atom
And since the apple that Adam bit
I have been so adamant
Y’all are acting just average and adequate and adamant
And my first song was for Jayden
Prayin' he’d stay alive and now he’s playing in the playpen
And I know I’m hella good with my cousin in my face
And since I’m hella good then I know I’m in my place
And if I’m hella good then I know I’m in my place
And if I’m hella good then I know I’m in my place


[Produced by Drew Mantia (making of the beat)]
[Intro: Pet Conspiracy]
Surround round round round
[Hook: Pet Conspiracy]
Purple sky is falling down
Lost fake trees
Sharp sounds scream in my ears
Plastic grass
Mouth, nose turned around
Nose look at my eyes
.
Are they all look at me?
Are they following me?
[Intro]
The drug was administered in a drink of water
Given at the start of each day's exercise
25 minutes later, the first effects of the drug
Became apparent. The man began to relax
[Verse 1: ProbCause]
I'm lost
Take a walk to the lake to ease my mind and I wander off
Tryna get up in my own zone no I don't really want to talk
Laid back in the grass looking up at marshmallow clouds
And the sunshine loud but the tree give shade and I'm way too high
Wanna thank this day wanna make that point that it could've been great
Could've been bad,
 
could've lost our way
But we still here and we just won't fade
See so clear when I'm in this place
Life is a drug so take a taste
Lucy Lucy Lucy in the sky with diamonds
 
who I chase
Purple haze, purple hearts, Mellow Yellow, hello y'all
Electrco Kool Aid cool me down
Strawberry fields where I make my rounds
Pick 'em off, eat them fresh
It's that life and I feel so blessed
I know there's stress, but I don't wanna hear that mess
This that nest and I feel the effects, yes
And I really wanna make this day go go forever
These revelations got me seeing life like I have never
So sublime, so just unwind and take this trip with me
There's something in the water here, lakefront crusin' on LSD
[Hook]
10 minutes later...
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Junkie loser, spunky Punky Brewster
Pockets chunky like they eating Harold's crunchy rooster
I'mma bungie jumper, just wish my knot was looser
Just wish my knots was not though
, 
hang out, my nights in nooses
Na na na na hey hey hey goodbye Titans, get outta here
The god is here, Zeus
 
I Love Lucy deuce me I'm outta spirits
And we outta beers, and my ears been tripping
I know some kids been dropping, I know your tears been dripping
I had an IEP, I'm supposed to be retarded
Now I'm all on the web, I had to Peter park it
Still steal from Neiman Marcus
, 
I still get beats from Markus
I still get deep on records, that's just that Greek catharsis
Just when it seems the darkest, is when it usually peak
And when it seems the farthest, is when it's usually sweet
I only shop on Friday, that's when it's usually cheap
They said they used to old dudes, well that ain't usually me
[Outro (making of the outro beat)]
Y'all hello hello y'all
(Igh! Igh! Igh! Igh!)


[Produced by Thomas Foolery]
[Intro / Outro]
In the real world, these just people with ideas
[Verse 1]
That shit cray, that shit dead
That shit fake, blast a kid
Cassius Clay at his head
Atta boy, atta kid
I'ma need a napkin, cook 'em up
And he gon' need a Aspirin, hook him up
Niggas was busy scrappin', put 'em up
I was too busy rapping, good as fuck
Niggas don't act like grown ups when niggas don't get to grow up
Niggas don't wanna throw hands that's what made me wanna throw up
But these young gunners ain't nothin' but young stunners
Niggas see you as come ups so niggas just wanna run up
Niggas asking what up, I said on my soul I'm a hundred
My niggas stay in the low end the others stay in the hundreds
My daddy told me to hands 'em, my momma told me to love 'em
My neighbors told me they hunting I hope I make it through summer
They stole one of my niggas I should have seen that one coming
My priest told me its angels my niggas told me its nothing
I'm thinking about my nigga he thinking before he die
I’m going to war with fate and I’m going to war with God
I'm burning up all the papers cuz all the reporters lied
I call him my lil homie he brought him a .45
Brown boys are dying, and none of ‘em were for business
And all of em' love they mommas, and all of they mommas miss 'em
And this shit is just stupid, this shit is fucking senseless
The news shouldn't support it, this shit is getting expensive
[Bridge] x2
I don't know why I sleep with my eyes wide
Hoping that I find you
[Monty Python sample]
[Outro]
I don't know why I sleep with my eyes wide
Hoping that I find you
And hoping that I find you
I been hoping that I find you
(I'm missing you)
 x5


[Produced by Chris Calor]
[Hook: Kembe X]
I got ten hoes on ten hoes
Been throwed off endo
The Benzo's a fishbowl
No tints on my windows
Gettin' chose by them hoes
My sis knows from En Vogue
These blunts can't get no bigger
I'm doing hoodrat shit with my niggas
[Verse 1: Alex Wiley]
44s I'm tippin', big blunts I'm splittin'
These bitches be bitter, heard me spit, now she strippin'
Cause this Village shit too hittin'
, 
and you know we gon' grind
In your lovely crib with your lovely bitch, but I hope you don't mind
Cause I'm ridin' 'round with my dick out, 
Toyota Priuses tricked out
Yo' grandmama taking me shopping, she's buying whatever I pick out
And you know The Village gon stick out
Like a sore thumb, bitch I'm goin dumb
Hotboxing the whip,
 ain't stoppin' for shit
When you hear the fucks, then you know it's us
You ain't down with that money team! 10 Honda Civics, parked outside
Fuck Whoopie G for 100 Gs? Hit me up, Whoopie, I'm 'bout that life
'Bout that life, 
thicker than a motherfuckin' Snicker
All I wanna do every day of my life is hoodrat shit with my niggas
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Get off, sick cough, 
hit licks, don't get caught
Kidnap like Jigsaw,
 
Big Meech, bitch, I'm Rick Ross
Got a odd to the liquor, 
got a Swisher to the weed
That's that Save Money militia
 
till my niggas rest in peace
Hit that Zan, that's my dance,
 
that's just Chance rappin' raps
In the land with the fam,
 
and my man's super slapped
Throwing bands in the stands 
to my stans, them my fans
This for real, this for free, this for playing at the trap
Good God, them good raps, you gave up for them hoodrats
Been a Long Time, since Hey Ma
Cause you burned down on your good shit, like Fuck is You Tahmbout?
Trill niggas still switchin' lanes, lil niggas still hit them stains
Real niggas still hit them bangs
[Hook]


[Produced by brandUn DeShay]
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Introducin' Chance the Ruthless
Trip 'shrooms and lucy
Dreams is lucid
Loosely based on music
Swallow my mucus
Hope your pussy get herpes and yo' ass get lupus
Deuces Douches, deuce deuce I'll shoot ya (BANG)
Shoes might boot cha and a suit might suit cha
They be on bullshit but they really don't do shit
They use of illusion could confuse Confucius
Nasty, ashy, cigarette ashing, 'til my voice get raspy
Last week suspended
Last night kissed Va$htie
Parleyed with Ashley
Always in the hallway, so I never been classy
(Ha ha ha) Shut up
[Hook]
Na na na, na na na
Na na na, na na na
Na na na, na na na
(Igh, igh, igh, igh!)
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Acid, Acid, get it? Acid
Melts through plastic, I spit fired
Pad my palette, talkin' paper
If this was work, I'd get
 
higher
Pardon my mishaps, burp and get murdered
Fart and get bitch-slapped
, 
like bourbon mixed with jack
Lickety-split, Look it! He slipped on a shell
From peelin' banana splits back
Give me my Kit-Kat
Don't break me off shit,
 
batch, fack is you mean bitch?
Zan with that lean bitch, zan with that lean bitch
Zen with that chakra
I eat it like Idi Amin, ya kna wha' mean
Hit me back when that mean shit
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Action Bronson]
Introducin', It’s Bronsonlino
With my hair slicked back, I look like Rick Pitino
3 Japanese dykes in my El Camino
Lettin' trees blow, oh
I rep the East Coast, I got a team of hoes like Pat Summit
I look like Arnold Schwarzenegger in a black hummer
 
(Get to the chopper!)
I splash summer like a fast brother
With a number on his back,
 
ain’t no fumblin', in fact, I’m -
Back, acid in my hat
Shoot then pass the gat, it's at the bottom of the river in a plastic bag
My new shorty got a gymnastic back
87 emerald green on a classic jag
She had the cleft palate, I ordered chef’s salad
She had the club foot, with that little arm
I couldn’t help but laugh, she ordered Chicken Parm
I had the full Bulls warm-up with the Pippens on
[Outro]
Suck my motherfucking dick,
 
it's the young Randy Velarde
Queens, baby
Blow me


[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Introducin' Chance the Ruthless
Trip 'shrooms and lucy
Dreams is lucid
Loosely based on music
Swallow my mucus
Hope your pussy get herpes and yo' ass get lupus
Deuces Douches. deuce deuce I'll shoot ya
Shoes might boot cha and a suit might suit cha
They be on bullshit but they really don't do shit
They use of illusion could confuse Confucius
Nasty, ashy, cigarette ashing, 'til my voice get raspy
Last week suspended
Last night kissed Va$htie
Parleyed with Ashley
Always in the hallway, so I never been classy
Shut up
[Hook]
Na na na, na na na
Na na na, na na na
Na na na, na na na
Igh
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Acid acid, get it? Acid
Melts through plastic, I spit fired
Pad my palette, talkin' paper
If this was work, I'd get higher-ed
Pardon my mishaps, burp and get murdered
Fart and get bitch-slapped, like bourbon mixed with jack
Lickety-split, lickety-slipped on a shell
From peelin' banana split backs
Give me my Kit-Kat
Don't break me off shit, batch, fack is you mean bitch?
Zan with that lean bitch, zan with that lean bitch
Zen with that chakra
I eat it like Idi Amin, you know what I mean
Hit me back when that mean shit
Shut up
[Extended Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
Vodka in my Redbull can, very formal
Shot a porno on a rebel cam
Don't be jealous that's the shit that got the devil damned
Yeah you got one banger? Nigga I got several hands
? rescue man
But you love the way I treat you extra special and
Got me feeling upper echelon
And I ate cheerios for dinner
I broke like 40 bowls I'm the cereal bowl killer
Manilla
Fearing an animal
They like Chano your an animal
Here's a bunch of mushrooms go run in the woods and find your spirit animal
I'm, hard to devour
Hearts turning sour
I want to put my twins in a tower
So I can hoop in my basement and swim in my shower
Choke holding my wine glass
Propose a toast 
to the noggin
I got holes in my socks and coal in my stocking
Santa was on dirt with all the poor kids in Chatham
So I rode to the north pole with a pole and I shot em
Batman, Gotham
Autumn
I ought to start selling them
But I ain't even on that
Nananananannanananananannaanananan


[Verse 1: Vic Spencer]
National Geographical
Concentrate on what's best to be classical when I'm after you
I'll make a movie outta rappers too
We'll fuck you up two ways
I feel like I'm acting too
Look like I received a Hollywood check
And I just fucked a broad who personally gave me that
So confident, Driving like D-Rose
Cruise so good, IRS was scared to repo
Stressed so I chain-smoke 3 'Ports
I ain't on, but I'm hated on the most
Smoke a lot, because I'm next to blow
Hot-boxing with the guys till my broad was like I'm rets' (ready) to go
I got other hoes dreaming 'bout my testicles
I ain't bringing no peace unless it is rest-able
I want a lot of rappers dead
I could make sure the pet lions get fed
They hired me to be one of the C.E.O's of all zoos
For all the bodies that I brought through
I live an orangutan lifestyle
It's quite foul for possums to hang from trees in the night-time
That's what paper is from, while the in fight lines
Put a commercial through my shit and I will kill you
Clear-Channel don't have a real view
Why have a penny for ya thoughts when I can bite dimes
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
It ain't never been nothing to me
Shit, it ain't ever been nothing for free
Save it
, I used to think shit was magic
I used to love Michael Jackson
I used to sit and imagine
Till I seen some shit too tragic
I'm just a bunch of atoms, I'm a national statistic
Love is just hormones and falling ain't shit but physics
And God don't pick up the phone
 and ain't shit out here sweet but mystics
I know I was pretty close but I guess that nigga just missed it
A nigga could take ya shoe game, a nigga could up ya suit game
I'm starting to get more sleep, I guess it could've been 
[?]
I thought that we was lions, it's how we end up in the food chain
But I never lost my pride. Save Money the new Wu-Tang
Ahhh, I think people think I'm losing it all
And I don't think I'm losing at all
Nah you right
I'm probably just gone screw up and fall
I put that on going to school in the fall
I guess that we made it
Through the summer
We was dodging some evenings
You know how close you come while you was bobbing and weaving?
Holding ya lungs, you was throbbing and wheezing
Look back at homie coughing and bleeding
Stopping and thinking that...
You so worried bout that 10Day
You don't know nights could be that night 
school
So if I ever end up missing
Just let me lay up in your iTunes


[Intro]
It just don't get better
It don't get better
It just don't get no better
[Hook]
It don't get no better
It don't get no
It don't get no better
It just don't get no better
[Verse 1]
I hate my bed, I hate my home, I hate my job
I hate the wife, I hate the kids, I hate the dog
I hate the sun, I hate the rain, I hate the clouds
I hate the TV, hate the dinner, hate the couch
I hate the car, I hate the bus, I hate the road
I hate the bar, I hate to drink, I hate to smoke
I hate a stranger, hate his boss, I hate his friend
I hate the womb, I needed room, I ate my twin
I hate my hands, handshakes, pancakes, milkshakes
Child-resistant locks on the pill case
I hate inflation, hate the store, I hate to choose
I hate the war, I hate the poor, I hate the news
I hate the late, I can't be early, hate to wait
I hate my lovers cause the way they suffocate
I fuck to hurt, it hurt to date, I hate to date
I fuck to hate, I hate to love, I hate to hate
[Bridge]
And it just don't
And it just don't
And it just don't
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I hate to lose, I hate to try, I hate to win
I hate to cruise, I hate to fly, I hate to swim
I hate the optimistic smirks on the face of children
I hate the government and those who deface its buildings
I hate artists, hate creatives, I hate bright people
I hate darkness, I hate racists, I hate white people
I hate small speakers, I hate loud speakers
I hate great concerts,
 
I don't like crowds neither
I hate money, I hate change, I hate hope
I hate funny, I hate strange, I hate dope
I hate charities and parodies and tragedies
I hate carrots, peas, asparagus
Virtually all vegetables, circuses, all festivals
Texts that are oversexual, emotion because it's perpetual
I hate schedules, calendars, reminders cause' they just remind us
 
That tomorrow gon' be just as timeless
I fuckin' hate you
[Bridge] + [Hook]


[Produced by MF Love]
[Intro]
"He should try enjoying life, rather than spending his time trying to outsmart me. While he's alive, that is"
"I know what you're saying but it's not that simple, it's just human nature"
"What's that guy doing, I wonder?"
[Verse 1]
I still got orange and white cassette tapes
Tents where my neighbor came to spectate
Niggas that’s tough now used to get little in the dark
It’s all cool now, we’re all little kids at heart
Accident prone Chance, y'all remember 'bout
The time I cracked my head open at Auntie Linda’s House
From diapers to outfits to castles to Elmos
From Santas to Grandmas to Gameboys and cellphones
Rocked your world, fourth grade
 
talent show
Jada and Justin’s birthday magic show
Games of tips taking niggas to school
Two quarters and I’ll bust your ass at pool, on bull
Round here we lose best friends like every week
I like to think we playin a long game of hide and go seek
And one day maybe I’ma find Terrance and I could lead them
Kids of the Kingdom singing about freedom
[Hook]
Heads down, eyes shut, time to play Seven Up
Heads bowed, hands clutched, bottles gone, Heavens up
Smiles come through, though my eyes might cry
When they reminisce over you, my God
[Verse 2]
Let’s take it back like Indian givers
To Indian burns and Jiminy Crickets
To the smell of Pillsbury on biscuit mornings
To puffy wintercoats and Christmas mornings
I used to chill with the kids next door
And SpongeBob came around 'bout four
And then I’d hang with Bart’s guys
Around the bend was Smart Guy
Flipping through the picture books
Checking through my archives
Remember the old days, the ones you’ll never get back
At the end of parties, passing around gift bags
Now we blow entire O's at one kick back
MY$FITS and mismatch
That get off like wristslaps
[
Hook]
[Verse 3]
Remember Jeepers and Odyssey Fun World
Young pimpin' like you oughta see one girl
Mama Jann, mama Charlie, and my mama Lisa
Booster seat used to boost my kitty, Connie's Pizza
And every year we made a Christmas list
And Auntie Linda cooked a Christmas dish
And all of our grandparents made a Christmas wish
Like “Lord, let me see another year like this”
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Riff Raff]
They say keep going
He said he came from Hawaii
Then everybody done tried me, I can't go by me
(I've never heard anybody rhyme with Hawaii before)
I bypass, look I buy paths
(I bypass on a fat ass) (no, no, no look)
I bypass, I've been wrecking mics
I bypass, I've been, I've been wrecking mics since Dreamcast
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Dreamcast, I dream fast
That's a disco now, I got a disco gap
This is a real small one
I'm a tall one
I don't follow 'em, but I might fall 'em
In the fall but
You don't wanna fall boy
You don't wanna tall boy
You sippin' on them little cans
[Verse 3: Riff Raff]
Legendary hemwork, check my hot tub pants
The way I stance, I got Jody Husky sing you into a trance
Two of us cost 750 plus a ticket
One point seven, I shoulda got a Prevost
We ball the most
Who gone ball from coast to coast
Who gone sip the playa potion
Who would ride tour bus three motion
I three wheeled a tour bus
I came through just the ten of us, Bentley Bus
Who done did that?
I used to drive a Honda, now I got a Benz back


[Production]
[Verse]
They ask me "Why this album so dark?"
Gloomy, and full of crushed heart
I tell ya
Cause the last album was my life's failure
I'd sip gin and tell ya
Holdin' my genitalia
History's on Lil Wayne memorabilia
Joey said, I sounded like Weezy
Zoey said, it was gettin' hard to see me
When I'm voicin' the word of something thats beneath me
Me moving to DC did not decease me
So I should have kept breathing til my lungs quit breathing
And then once more as a piece of blasphemy
Cause my raps feed me
Jay, am I good enough now?
I put my best foot in the center of a crowd
Cause that's forward for me I vow
I pray for the haters that's hateful
And grateful every time I get pesos
Cause I can never be Pac
I can never be BIG
I can never be Jay
I can never be Jigg
I can never be Vic
Never be J. Rivers
I can only be Chano and I never say never
And I can never say...


[Verse 1: D Bridge]
Uh, everyday I fold my hands together
And ask the Lord to please help me mold these plans together
Cause I can't do it alone, it's true that I'm on a mission
My vision is vivid and [?]
Only opticians can see that I'm gifted
Like yuletide, just a cool guy
Sitting poolside in my imagination
Watch a dream unfold, I done dreamed so long
Down to scheme with my team 'til the green don't fold
It ain't a pipe dream no mo'
Oh no, so I'mma go, one step at a time
I'm next up in line, I guess I'm defined by reppin what's mine
I reckon my time is approachin' (is approachin')
That's what I'm hopin' (that's what I'm hopin')
And I pray that my career is never folding (never folding)
Like origami, I'm posted with Imani
Cause the verse is picture perfect
And to let you know we grindin'
Cause life is hard, but pain is mental
So while y'all making paper planes, I'm chasing this paper, playing it simple
Ha, swear y'all should put me in the hall of fame
Cause life and art is all the same
And when it unfolds, my legacy will be flawless mane
[Hook: D. Bridge]
So, so, so, fuck you just pay me
There's no ifs, buts or maybes
And dont look at me crazy
Come on, try all you want
But know that you'll never phase me, beat me, or play me
So listen when I tell you Im on
Cause Im on, Im on, Im on
Yeah Im on, Im on, Im on
So, so, so I know you see me shining
I won't fold like origami
Cause my whole city behind me, fo'sho
[Verse 2: Gerald Walker]
I just kept on saying "yes," as they kept on saying "no"
So nigga don't compare me to the rest
Cause when they stop, that's when I go
So nigga you know
You're now listening to the one of the realest that ever would do it
Them niggas that shot, won a fortune then blew it
Put your middle fingers up if you tired of the foolish songs
And the shit that these other niggas biten
Always told "remain humble," nigga who the fuck we kiddin'?
Tell the world that we down to bring it back
All the lyrics that they lack
So I suggest you niggas pay attention
So if it's a clique or a gang full of niggas
Or whether I'm doing this shit on my own
I've never been scared to do this shit alone
It's real nigga shit, mothafucka should'a known
And I'm never the type to come snap, rap, and dance
Wait on another or sit on my hands
[?] in this stuff and you might get a shot
No time to be scared, just piss in your pants
Just understand, it's only a matter of time before they know me
Girl to slow me, and my homies, get up on me
Like they know me, they control me
Listen closely, I don't need a bunch of phonies tryna own me
Maybe stone me or dethrone me
Rather stay by myself and be lonely
Still doin' the tune
No matter who in the room or who in the building
No matter who close the show
You can ask the party people who stole it though
They know
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Fo'sho, fo'sho, fo'sho, fo'sho, fo'sho, fo'sho
IGH! Chance? The Rapper? IGH! IGH!
Run up in your spot like
Give me that spotlight, that limelight
Rhyme like light skin Marshall
Artist crucial, superfarcial
Caution, the kids is in the van, it's like a super carpool
My shoes is stupid awful,
 
rose gold my tulips purple
Pass the piff,
 
pacifist or a fist
Or a kiss,
 
or kids,
 
orifice
Nothing rhymes with oranges
Little illeterate,
 
run from the litter
Deliver the faith that we had in you gone
Origami oracles, paper tell my fortune
People told me once before, that everything's gon' blow up
You can make a crane or plane
Dependin' how you fold it (IGH!)


[Verse 1: Kelsey]
On my own two feet
I'm back in control
In the driver's 
 with what I say goes
And I can't slow down
I won't hold back
(yeah x4)
[Hook: Kelsey]
This night is magical, beautiful, electrifying
And I am letting go
 to flying
This room is fading fast
Make it last, Hold it closer
Once I cross that finish line, baby
I'll be out of sight
(yeah x4)
Out of sight
(yeah x4)
[Verse 2: Kelsey]
Got no reason why
My heart says go
Got no time to cry
I should let you know
I won't slow down
I can't hold back
(yeah x4)
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Chance, The Rapper
It's like oh my
My heart bleeding for ya
It's like oh my
But it's hardly over
I'm spittin' over-seas
Plane 
taking
 off, I leave
Got me picking off leaves of my four-leaf clover
 like
She love me not
She love me lot
So
All of these hoes
Babe, I just crush a lot, like
Hella' flights
Hella' nights
Out of spite
Gotta' learn to trust your boy even though I'm out of sight
[Hook: Kelsey]


[Verse 1: Vic Spencer]
I came out of nowhere
They didn’t expect me
My flow is like faux pas
Rocking a pair of SB’s (fresshh)
I’m so gone call me Mr. Jet Ski (Mount!)
While you at home in your room trying to stretch weed
They gave me an invite, and I ain’t wanna go
So I sent a look-a-like, for a no show
Blow smoke. Don’t choke. It didn’t kill my brain cells
Instead of taking pain pills. I think headaches ain’t real
Bed brakes on the real, when the God smashed ya broad. Oh my lawd
Fucking head game needs a damn applause
A studio audience. 16 is a sitcom
Hell a marks loitering
, will I drop a big bomb?
Execute the situation
What you think is dope is basic
Oh its fashion that you chasing?
Leave his ankles on the pavement
Then it’s back to the booth
Like nothing happened, bang and snatch
I stay that mother fucker
That these shaky Maude's aiming at
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Came out the woodwork, like shop class
Popped up like Pop’s ass; years later
Told I had the same fro that Pop’s had
Told I had the same flow that Pac had
My father figure was a nigga in a top hat
Moonwalking for a hundred thousand pockets
I know at home I had some problems back with my dad
I’m sorry my bad, I’m on your iPad
I had a childhood they just scared I'll never grow up
I’m scared to God that all my friends at shows won’t show up
They arms is fold up, like “Tell me what’s the hold up?
When the fuck you gonna show us, how the fuck you supposed to blow up?”
And everything I give them, Niggas just want the opposite
Bitch obviously I can spit!
I can pitch up an octave
And spark a hip-hop apocalypse!
Through the wire my college shit!
This my Chaka Khan scholarship!
Teachers better acknowledge it!
[Hook: Chance The Rapper]
I come from out the water
I come to drown your soul
I come to sing my story
These fables must be told
I came from out the water
I come to drown your soul
I came to sing my story
This fable must be told
But you can’t find me
You can’t find me no
You won’t find me
You’ll never find me no


[Verse 1]
Chancelor the rapper,
 
Chatham the hood
Sin of the children, used to bag up the goods
They say I'm saving my city, say I'm staying for good
They screaming Chano for mayor, I'm thinking maybe I should
Fucked a few A&R's, told her bitch I can’t wife you
Told your ass since day one
, I don't like like labels or titles
I’m a rascally rabbit, I know that tricks is for addicts
That need fixes for habits, along with carrots and cabbage
I’m a savage, established bad bitch magnet, I'm magic
Your majesty, I’m majestic, I think my message is massive
I think you passive aggressive,
 
think you passed up your prime
I think you passed up your chance to be Chance now pass it to A-Rap
Chano
 
what do you want, and we’ve been here before
Ain’t my principal told me that I can’t rap at that show
Then I rap at that show, simple as that
Got a complex from Complex off of the simplest rap
And it goes...
[Hook]
Feelin' the fire, hands is up higher
Cannot believe it, damn I’m a rider
Riding on twenties, twenty years prior, I couldn’t buy a
Forget it you get it,
 
God is so awesome, devil’s a liar
Take ‘em to church but I need a choir
I believe that if I fly, I’ll prolly end up somewhere in paradise
IGH, I believe that if I fly, I’ll prolly end up somewhere in paradise
[Verse 2]
Blow out the speakers, roll some more loud
That’s the sound of the reefer, I think my chair is a cloud
Thank my fans in the bleachers,
 
think my teachers need features
Think I’m walking with Jesus, I knew my feet wouldn't drown
I been close to the edge, I been tripping and stuff
Somebody slipped me a mickey, but I ain't giving a fuck
Really, a milli, how ‘bout six million more
Or I’m outie like how'd he cut that umbilical cord
As I smoke herb in this Uber suburban dressed in an Urban Outfitters
Shirt and burgundy pair of Jordans
I asked the acid if words were worth worrying over
Her explanation seemed agitated
So let me ask your question with some questions questioning yours
Like why’d you sweat on that metro?
And why you dancing so retro?
And why these bitches can’t let go, can’t let go?
IGH,
 It takes a half a second to think
It only takes one minute to blink
But I got a couple hours so I need more [?]
[Hook] x2


[Produced by Peter Cottontale and THEMpeople]
[Verse 1]
I wonder if Gladys smiles when angels bring my name up
Or change language and subject change up
Her boy’s a long way from red dolls and green rangers
Things ain’t been the same since Ms. Patterson called me famous
I saw your reflection in a toilet full of vomit water
You don’t think I felt your hand on my head yelling, “Call his father”
But people don’t hear ghost, so how they gon' play me?
Money saved me, so I’ma do the same thing
You droppin' pounds, gettin' small on some sick shit
Like how you got the drive but don’t know how to use a stick shift?
You better not miss this, overdose dope and mix this
Let your throat close with a boatload of dope quotes within it
[Hook]
Long time now since I seen you smile
Long time long time now
Since I seen you smile
And it's been a long time, long time now
Since I seen you smile
[Verse 2]
Dropping tapes 'till I lost the count
Coughing out blood, dropping weight like I lost an ounce
Throwing words and tossing nouns
NY traveling, I’m Boston bound, bossing 'round homies
And talking down to shorties while I’m jotting down
Notes to spit to Harlem crowds, surfing through the Harlem crowds
At the crib I’m falling down, I'm on the floor crawling 'round
I’m calling out to God, "You’re little angel's falling down
Save me from my darkened cloud, reach your hands and arms around"
Long time long time now since I seen your smile
We miss you
[Verse 3]
#10Day
It's been a really, really long time, long time
Since a goof ass nigga done tried me
Label niggas wanna sign me and lame ol' nigga wanna buy me
Food and weed and drink and shit, just as long as you inkin shit
Sometimes I can't pay for food cause sometimes I can't think of shit
Where's your head at? Where's your head at?
Singing my shit like you just said that
Wanging my shit like where'd you hear that?
Young ass nigga where you headed?
Long time to get famous, life's whatever you make it
Just thank god that we made it


[Produced by Dj Such n Such, Prince Talent, and THEMPeople]
[Verse 1]
Charlie Bartlett, John Bender
Class Switcher, Time Bender
Chance Bennett, a peculiar name
Graduation night teachers Ferris Bueller'd my name
You made a mixtape? Good job, I hope you get a good job
We was all outcasts, only listened to Good Mob
I performed at fun fair
Fun fact, I'm never going back to school
Been there, done that
They see my little 10 Day tape and my dumb raps
Don't call it impossible, if you really want that
They send my ass to summer school, don't call it a comeback
I just came to beat a bully's ass and get my lunch back
Chano y tequila you know you know you don't want that
I rap my songs in Spanglish, I wrap my weed in blunt wraps
Wrapped up in this one line I hope that shit get unwrapped
As if niggas was getting signed off of a line off one rap
Yo Vic, remember when they called us some freshmen niggas rapping?
Now I ain't gonna be a freshman and I'm rapping
I should've learned a lesson from all of this shit happening
I just look over to Justin for refreshments of the Captain
It's sipping when it's weak sauce, it's shots if it's cracking
Sip it when we tear up, and chug it if we laughing
Fuck it if we're fucked up I never thought of Chatham
Until the day they said I would have to chat without em
And I'm just in the studio hoping that it sounds right
Here's a brighter bulb for your limelight
And this is your night, homie, shine bright
This for everybody's fucking prom night
[Hook X2]
And it's alright
And it's ok
And we're all good
We're with homies
Any problems, you can call us
It's all love, it's all love
[Verse 2]
Uh, yo this prom shit feel like the Grammy's yo
These pictures Granny took gonna make me ask where'd Granny go
So pass the Sanyo to Auntie Jo
And snap a couple candid's of the family, get some cameos
You can change the clocks but you can't change hours
I'm waiting on the day, Spring can't bring flowers
Let me ask for minutes from dad for those campaign hours
And pour these thirsty hoes a couple champagne showers
And hop up in that limo, the hood going dummy
The hood fucking love me, the hood think we lovely
So go and pop some bubbly, this right here's to loyalty
This to a moment's glimpse at royalty
This is for my momma Jan who spoiled me
Look what we've accomplished
Time flies, watches look like magnets on a compass
Before we dip, Gladys said a prayer over the limo
Bumping 10 Day with the Angels with Jesus shopping my demo
And rode up out of Chatham, the whole hood clapping
And damn it would be crazy if any of this shit had happened
But it didn't, I missed prom, I missed it to spin
I did a show at AKIN and I would do it again
[Hook X2]
[Verse 3]
Look at, look at your business tux, all night airplane
Go and get your racist on, all white everything
I'm on my paper now, put that on my heading
I ain't even write this down I don't write errthing
I know y'all don't like everything
She want a night she can call her wedding
Giving Eskimo kisses, with some Eskimo bitches
Nose diving, going all night sledding
Coked out like "Don't change when you grow up
I hope you get some change when you blow up"
Cuz honestly I've always loved the way you could throw up
Rest up on my shoulder, float up flying lotus
"
You deserve a warm towel, you deserve a soda
You deserve a quiet room, you deserve a sofa
You deserve a Ferrari and a matching tiara
And a hand to wipe away all that running mascara"
But I, I want to thank you for this prom night
Thank you for this prom night
Thank you for this prom night
I really enjoyed my prom night
[Hook]
[Outro]
So good, So right
Hey baby, so good, so right
You know it feels so good
So good, so right
To be with you tonight
So good, so right
To be with you tonight
So good, so right
To be with you tonight


[Produced by CeeJ]
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Ten damn days
And all I got to show for it is shoes and shows and chauffeurs with road rage
Still the same damn ad-lib: IGH!, old ways
Still gotta letterman, no practice
Still gotta burner man, no lacking
Still outtin Jams nigga, no Jackson
No Jordan and we toe-tagging
I'll take you to land, where the lake made of sand
And the milk don't pour and the honey don't dance
And the money ain't yours
Now its just a red pill
Got a blue and a hand full of Advils
I'm the new Nitty, fuck it Nitty the old me
So Ima tell the buyer what Nitty told me
[Hook: Nate Fox](x2.5)
I got that mmm, mmm
I got that God damn
I'm your pusha man
I'm-your-I'm-your pusha man
Pimp slappin', toe taggin'
I'm just tryna fight the man
I'm your pusha man
I'm-your-I'm-your pusha man
[Verse 2]
You a laaaaaaaame, and your bitch break down my weed sometimes
See my face in the streets, in the tweets
And a Reader or a
 
RedEye if you read Sun-Times
She got blisters on her knees, she's a fiend for the D
Even though I only beat one time
One time it was one two times
It was two plus me equals threesome time
Shouts out to Nate, I jackball and I bop, I flex
Got neck from all these thots I sex
Rastafari them shottas yes
House safari, mi casa, yes
Poppy fields of that popeye
She came to party, she popped a Molly
Said "come to papa", she said "papa, yes"
[Hook]
[Produced by Nosaj Thing]
[Hook (x2)]
I've been riding around with my blunt on my lips
With the sun in my eyes and my gun on my hip
Paranoia on my mind,
 
got my mind on the fritz
But a lot of niggas dyin', so my 9 with the shits
[Verse 1]
Move to the neighborhood; I bet they don't stay for good, watch
Somebody'll steal daddy's Rollie, call it the neighborhood watch
Pray for a safer hood when my paper good, watch
Captain Save-a-Hood, hood savior, baby boy
Still getting ID'd for Swishers
 
(Mama still wash my clothes)
Still with the Save Money militia
 
(I'mma still watch my bros)
Trapped in the middle of the map
 
with a little-bitty rock and a little bit of rap
That, with a literary knack, and a little shitty Mac, and like literally jack
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
They murking kids; they murder kids here
Why you think they don't talk about it?
 
They deserted us here
Where the fuck is Matt Lauer at? Somebody get Katie Couric in here
Probably scared of all the refugees, look like we had a fuckin' hurricane here
They'll be shooting whether it's dark or not, I mean, the days is pretty dark a lot
Down here, it's easier to find a gun than it is to find a fucking parking spot
No love for the opposition,
 
specifically a cop position
Cause they've never been in our position
Getting violations for the nation, correlating, you dry snitchin'
[Hook]
[Breakdown]
I know you scared
You should ask us if we scared too
I know you scared
Me too
I know you scared
You should ask us if we scared too
If you was there
Then we'd just knew you cared too
It just got warm out, this the shit I've been warned 'bout
I hope that it storm in the mornin', I hope that it's pourin' out
I hate crowded beaches,
 
I hate the sound of fireworks
And I ponder what's worse between knowing it's over and dyin' first
Cause everybody dies in the summer
Wanna say ya goodbyes, tell them while it's spring
I heard everybody's dying in the summer
So pray to God for a little more spring
I know you scared
You should ask us if we scared too
If you was there
Then we'd just knew you cared too


It feels way shorter. 
Every day is a workday.
 It's hard to explain. 
When you're working on shit every day and it comes back full circle three months later
, it doesn't hit you the same way. Cause it's something I knew I was working on.
Definitely. I do recognize it all the time. But it's not like . . . I don't necessarily feed into the whole newfound-fame type shit, or feeling like a different person. If anything, it makes me realize how fleeting and unreal it all is. It's all just about perspective. I just feel like it's not real. It's real, but only in the way it affects those around you. Fame or perceived success – it all comes from groupthink.
...
There's no reason to.
 
It's a dead industry.
I don't really have control over my direct impression on people anymore. 
I used to be the person putting my CD in people's hands.
 
But I'm kind of a mainstream artist now. Not by choice.
 Not by what I make or anything. But just by that ripple-effect shit.
The whole point of Acid Rap was just to ask people a question: does the music business side of this dictate what type of project this is? 
If it's all original music and it's got this much emotion around it and it connects this way with this many people, is it a mixtape?
 
What's an album these days, anyways?
 
Cause I didn't sell it,
 
does that mean it's not an official release?
 
So I might not ever drop a for-sale project. Maybe I'll just make my money touring.


[Hook]
I'm ridin' round, ridin' round, ridin' round wit a lot of dope
Ridin' round, ridin' round, ridin' round wit a lot of dope
Ridin' round, ridin' round, ridin' round wit a lot of dope
I get a lot of dough, ridin' round wit a lot of dope
(2x)
[Video Verse: eGo]
Ridin' round wit a lot of dope
You ridin' round wit a lot of dro
My white bitch, like white bitch
That mean she snort a lot of blow
I'm sick bitch, but Ion cough much
New Bentley wagon boss truck
Ion cost much, I'm lined up
Yo girlfriend, she lying over
In my bed, wit great head
And I bet we practice safe sex
My speakers blasting
Yeah that hard work is in my tape deck
I'm the motherfucking man, bro I can't be stopped
And my Mike stock dead bruh, they can't be copped
I said I ridin' round my side of town
Hotboxing while cops around
My lil niggas Save Money squad
I'll have them niggas chop you down
My blunt lit, my cup full
Ion really care bout drunk driving
We'll shut her down
Me and Leo, we be on Stunt Island
From the city of the 'Go, where anybody go
For that nigga Go, ball like sco
That's score bitch, you a whore bitch
My crib got its own orbit
I should forfeit? That's horseshit!
Sick Life bitch, I'll enforce it
You dumb bitch, my thumbprint's
What I open my door wit
[Hook]
[Verse 1: eGo]
Ridin' round wit my bad bitch
Killin' niggas, it's tragic
And you cash chase, I cash get
Make your girl disappear, its magic
I'mma boss, you a gay man
I be chillin' in the Caymans
I'm out, lil nigga stay in
I can't see you in my Ray Bans
I'm on lil man, you off nigga
Don't ask what it cost nigga
I been on the floss nigga
Ralph Lauren, fuck Lacoste nigga
22s on the feet, I skate by
Fuckin' old heads up, I'm A.I
But I won't flop, and I'm gon' pop
Watch ya girl get low, I stay high
New white Range, but the Chevy nice
Lotta fuckin chrome, that's crazy ice
And its crazy right, that I won't lose
Pickup game I won't choose
And I don't play, if you don't pay
You'll see why I'm from four-trey
I'm sick, I'm dope dog
Ion really spit bars, I'm coke dog
From the city of the 'Go, where anybody go
For that nigga Go, I'll ball like sco
That's score bitch, you a whore bitch
My crib got its own orbit
I should forfeit? That's horseshit!
Sick Life bitch, I enforce it
You dumb bitch, my thumbprint's
What I open my door wit
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
Riding around like skrrrttt!
Driving up on the curb
BB gun to ya head, bitch is you scared?
Niggas get murked, feelings get hurt
Bink bink bink bink if you think that its sweet
Click clack
Hit licks, little nigga wit a big sack
No simpin', wit my pimpin' where my bitch at?
In the passenger seat, wit her hand in her kit katt
Kidnap yo bitch, put her body in the trunk
Ghost ride the clip, nobody in the park
Put a loosie in the air, and saw up in a blunt
Cold body wit a cab, but I probably should've jumped
Save up, save up. Can't no nigga touch my scrilla
Except for all my brothers, and you niggas unfamiliar
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Caleb James]
All my real niggas holla
I'm out here bout a dolla
If you speak another language holla at ya
Go all about the cheese, bout the bread, bout the cake
You could take a break but in the meantime in between time
I make enough cash to rake and replace the sand by the lake
And only eat potatoes and steak
I ride around town with something so fine it make you frown in the passenger
Niggas come for mines and I'm blasting ya
It'd be mad static it'd me mad tragic
Cause I can't run after you dawg I'm a asthmatic
But I roll green like the slim change in my jeans
Or the team from Boston
That'll probably put me in a coffin from coughing
But I do this often
Niggas know I'm falling off topic but I get it right up in the pocket
And niggas know I'm plugged like a socket
Blast off like a rocket when I rock the cypher
Hoes follow me like pied piper
You can't find none nicer
Shittin on niggas I'm needing diapers
Niggas know ain't no need for me mugs to show the shoves
And I'm in the club wit my nigga 
Chance
It's all love
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
And it's all love
I'm looking for some hoes I can call up
And all them niggas wit em gettin balled up
Put your cash up
It's the same old dance and they can flash mob
Apologies for my Savemoney philosophies
Young Socrates, Sophocles with Ptolemy's
Building a monopoly never practice monogamy
Harness all the bad my parents couldn't beat outta me
So take a piece of mind
Robbery, lobotomy
And I'm a cocky asshole but that's a different side of me
Well death is a coincidence, life is an anomaly
So death to all of yesterday and viva la tomorrow G
My homies push weight forward with scales
To get they grind on like skateboards and rails
Never hit a treflip but they can hit a stain quick
Hit a wipe out and cops shove em in jails
So fuck what them say
Savemoney all day but this is my 10 Day
If your pocket says what I need to get rent paid
Guess this the Savemoney bank job put that on my tank top
[Verse 3: Vic Mensa]
It's the paid money bank mob
Riding on everything give your hood a new paint job
It's niggas with children, put the crown up
Buildin what you think Bob
In the party, sippin' and dancin' 'till my drank drop
I could steal the show, it ain't the song a nigga can't rob
Riding down Cottage
My nigga don't quit your day job
I'm face late husband mixed with a little face mob
Go and turn the fuck up out the bass knob
Nigga it Savemoney yo let whoever have the most to drink, drive
Crash burn, pass niggas and cash earn
Cremate rappers leave the ashes in the glass urn
You don't wanna try me that'd be nonsense
You don't want beef and I don't want that on my conscience
So stay cool
I stack O's, push Q's like I play pool
Fuck a textbook fuck a teacher cause I hate school
Straight fool, I go dummy when the beat drop
In a treehouse getting blunted in the treetop
Know only come with that heat rock
Smokin in the heat box, busting a beat box
Biatch
[Verse 4: Malcolm London]
Built from the ground up like a sky scraper
Off the high dropping niggas off call us some sky scrapers
Savemoney stacked like a spy nigga get back
Got your girl dripping and she can get waxed in fact
Never weighed down, even with all the ounces we inhale
Lungs in jail guess you could say we spit bars
Guess you could say we never sleep
Continue to resist arrest
Not a crew, not a clique
This is a revolution, this is an evolution
You got problems, and we got solutions
Years of institutions leave you always on your toes
Hard for a nigga to heal
Walking Chi city streets bring pressure
Leaving diamonds in our chest
Souls like steel
Built from the ground up, no beef unless you want it
And we never standin still, battle royale and we standing still
Savemoney, save music, save minds
My nigga Caleb James, blowing up like land mines
So don't step
At y'all necks like a tie
Bo Squad
Built from the ground up
Niggas ain't Savemoney you a bitch
Taylor Gang, Taylor Gang


[Produced by Social Experiment]
[Intro: James Blake]
Love is the life 'round here
We're never done
Part time love
[Verse 1: Chance the Rapper]
Life ain't been 'round here in a minute
Here ain't been 'round my whole life
Mike ain't spin 'round in a minute
The sand just dropped for the last time
But wear that fake smile like a cape
Save yourself first
Light ain't been 'round here in a minute
Darkness been swallowed it up
Chaos been 'round for a minute
Marketed, bottled it up
But wear that fake smile like a cape
Save yourself first
I ain't been 'round here in a minute
But here ain't been round a whole lot
My flesh looked through the peephole
Seen his people, sealed the keyhole and kept the door locked
Life can't be here, indefinite
Not another minute 'round here
Why can't a minute be spent in a town that's nowhere round here?
But wear that fake smile like a cape
But wear that fake smile like a cape
Save yourself first


[Hook]
Save this money
Save this money
Stay getting money
Save this money
(2x)
Savin! Savin, savin!
Savin! Savin, savin
Money!
(2x)
[Chance The Rapper]
Saved all my money
Saved all my money
Started with nothing but now I'mma hundred
[Caleb James]
You pop beans, I sip lean
Your sprite white, my shit pink
Nigga this here my daddy house, I was running things since I was 15
I was running from the teachers,
 
fucking hoes under the bleachers (ewww)
Up in class smelling like reefer,
 
got a bank rolled in my sneakers
Like Wayne I'm hot boy breakin down that crop boy
My nigga Coach K from the A,
 I told him drop the top boy
Hating you should stop boy, real nigga you not boy
You don't want them problems, my niggas come down your block boy
[Joey Purp]
Save money we got it
I'm smoking on exotic
And my girl ain't got no stomach
Every time she eat she vomit
Puffin' on that potent
Shipped it in from Oakland
Go to Houston for that potion
Got me living in slow motion
But I'm straight from the MidWest
Say they want beef but a nigga won't test
Killers don't sleep so the niggas don't rest
Bust a hallow tip teeth straight thru his mothafuckin chest
Them Chicagorillas,
 
Chi-Town home of the stonecold killas
Where the niggas kill stones, cuz them stones gonna get us
If a nigga die slow then they gon' come wit'cha
[Hook]
[Vic Mensa]
Save this money ain't shit funny
I keep this shit one hunnit
Dick she get it if she want it
And my mommy said she ready, she said come and get me
I'm the unabomber, make that pussy Armageddon
Eat it like spaghetti, meat balls in her mouth boy
My people all in the house, they burning reefer bowls in the couch boy
You smoked out in that coach house
Started breaking shit and then broke out
Got her taking dick in that whole mouth
My grave and bitches they both South
[Chance The Rapper]
Tight pocket Zulu
 
Chips up like Bugle
I can't spend that much my pockets just too frugal
My face on Google do you need Goggles?
Southside Chicago fuck you and fuck Blago
Welfare Wells Fargo fare well till tomorrow
Got father called up Father God can I borrow?
A dollar, dinero, or euro
My money is buried in burials and bureaus
Tripped out
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Jeremih]
Cause you want to get wit it
Fuck you with the top off
Man I have so many demons
Fuck around and get lost
Told my bitch lay my head down
And what this shit costs
Cause if you about that life right now
I hope it ain't all
[Hook: Jeremih]
Now I can get you in the Mile High Club, what's up?
Let's take a trip
Have you ever read "The World Is Yours"
On a blimp
Get high baby roll one, cloud nine, 'bout to go up
Lovin' the feelin' of turbulence girl when we turn up
Maybe later we can roll out, show you something you don't know about
Tonight we be takin' off flight with a camera to show about
I got you in the air, your body in the air
How it feel up here?
You can scream as loud as you want, and loud as you can
And ain't nobody gonna hear it
[Bridge: Jeremih]
[?]
We can hit the west coast
[?]
If you 'bout that life right now
I hope it ain't all
[Hook: Jeremih]
[Verse: Chance the Rapper]
Golden ticket
She just go and kick it, it's a factory
[?] order daiquiris, with your bitches, gettin' drunk as fuck
See a bitch I fucked would get mad at me
Listen to Kels then get back with me
Nothin' but broken bridges, she could never burn 'em
Yeezy taught her well, he ain't ever gonna learn her
You would be a liar if you said I didn't want her
But then she is so delicious, this shit sweet
I be hittin' other bitches like this shit weak
This the worst pussy I've had all week
But she got that golden ticket
Fuck the airfare, we should have an affair
Life's real unfair to the ones here
Life's ain't really a game when its one player
[?] beat the pussy up like Jerry versus Tom
[?] like harry
She said she had too much baggage to carry on
You make me optimistic
We should just go and kick it
You got that golden ticket
I got some golden tickets
[Hook: Jeremih]


[Intro]
Yooooo Yooooo Yoooo
Will we continue on
String along
We need time
Yooooo Yooooo Yoooo
Will we continue on
String along
We need time
[Verse 1: Cass Lowe]
You reach into the bowl of car keys
Making eye contact, as if to say 'hows that"
Are you fucking happy now
Grab his wrist and wriggle past me
As Jenny licks her lips
Time to teach a young dog tricks
And how to bow
Remember when you couldn't hurt me
We reached a breaking point
As you lit your joint and we crossed the severn bridge
For the addy and your cold out, splow me out
Again
[Hook]
And you kiss him
And I kiss her
And I love her
We all go home again
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
She know my favorite flavor skittles
She know everything we argue 'bout
Where everything in our crib at
And every time you walk up out
She know whenever we fighting and whenever we cool
But my favorite thing she know is that she'll never be you
She know she'll never have her song, She know she'll never have my son
She know she'll never have your pain, she'll never have to have a hunch
She know everyone that I lie about, heard every freaking word
She know everything you wonder bout, and it hurt her even worse
Who'd you rather be?
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
I been killing myself slowly, crazy
I been feeling myself, only, lately
Everything seems second rated
Safety hazard flaky
Drunk decision but fuck it fucking maybe
You only live till eighteen
Posted stupid Katies
With crackheads, rabies, babies babies kiss my aching headache
I got a Jesus on my neck
I gotta flex on my G
I got a S on my chest
I gotta flex that chest piece
I can't be pawning my hooks
And spending nights with my queen
I keep that bishop in sight
And past that checkmate my dreams
I wrote this shit in a coma
Smoking on marijuana
Rolled in my homies diploma
Rolled in my homies Carolla
[Verse 2: Kami de Chukwu]
Still sip that pack of Coronas
Front seat me ride by my lonesome
Just me, peddle to the medal be that lid foot speed
Got me chasing all my devils it be hell in these streets
Crucify a rebel it be hell to see
Break neck, whiplash if they hit that tree
Cuz the lick passed be the creed to the OG
As he plants seeds in your mind make yo brain bleed
Need a vaccine just to keep them facts clean
Break em out they chains but they brain rattling
Channel them questions
To ask and learn lessons
Quite fast, instant message
Such lovely progression
The day that they reckon be marching on closer
Dream on nigga as them days rolling over
And them nights on yonder got em sleep on they motive
The rudely awakened SaveMoney takeover
Like
[Hook]
Get on my level!
Get on my level!
Get on my level!
[Verse 3: Vic Mensa]
Thoughts out of hell deep thinking from the grave
I can't think of nothing must be something in the way
Never mind Nirvana, we thinking getting paid
If I was working at McDonald's I'd be Kurt Cobain
Sitting in the back seat letters written in a bit of ritalin shivering how we living in an age
Knock, Knock
Opps at the door, get it, whoop whoop, pop pop
Rock em like a baby nigga goo goo gah gah
Life's beginnings become short so I roll another long one to stop me stressing
I can't be alone when I'm off of this medicine
At home and I roam on and off and eat ketamine
They hold aye ho 
save those pesos
Take those stimulants with those sedatives
Running from the ambulance
The camera man is chasing me
Afghanistan is riding round the hood in my residence
[Verse 4: Tokyo Shawn]
Don't tweak on me
Wake up don't sleep on me
Don't think its sweet
SaveMoney my tendencies
SaveMoney an embassy
On my enemies, that I tend to see
We some titans so remember me
That recipe, Ecstasy, with telepathy
So I know you feel me, no need to speak
Hold up! Let me tell you what it means to me
Everything ain't what it seems to be
But the weak gon believe what he can see
That's weak to me
Get a view of my scenery
You see my team
Trying to find a piece of mind and a piece of peace
Go to sleep and dream
[Hook]
[Outro: Caleb James]
White bitches pop Vicodin
Black bitches like Nike's and Timbs
I'm still hitting 40s man
I'm still sipping the 40s man
I'm still hitting your shorty man
Bending corners in Dayton rims
SaveMoney my partner them
SaveMoney I'm not gon' spend
You know we gets it poppin'
From land where pistols poppin'
Drink Goose and chips is stakin'
Empty yo pockets lackin'
My niggas gets it crackin'
We in the party poppin'
We got the party rockin'
Presto got the party poppin'
(All my niggas stay grinding)
What the fuck yo niggas do?
(All my niggas stay shining)
What the fuck yo niggas do?
(All my niggas they SaveMoney)
What the fuck yo niggas do?
(If we ain't got it we take money)
What the fuck yo niggas do?


[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
*Yawning*
Damn it's the 7th already?
Only 6 in the morning getting up already
The sun ain't even up, my eyelids too heavy
The breath smells of vodka and fingers smells of reggie
Hair is all nappy and clothes is all fresh
The assorted is torture for all the lucky freshies
Back to proms, and after-school lock ins
I need more [?] of this going back to school coppin'
Shoppin' to mom, she knows that I am Savemoney
Tryna convince her that this time I really save money
Buying both our clothes with stain money
Tryna explain that it's all just the same money
But she knows it's really gang money
I said momma what's the difference if it make money?
She says if you'll take for me you would take from me
And as long as I pay for it she will pray for me
[Harmonies: Akenya]
My homie, Nico Segal of Kids These Days band
Savemoney
[Trumpet solo: Nico Segal]
[Outro: Chance The Rapper]
Watch out, it's a movement
Look for that, Savemoney you'll see us in the papers
On the news
Look for GPA, Instrumentality
Back to school!


[Produced by Tree]
[Hook - MC TREE]
She's the type that gata have it
And he's the type to take control, man
She's the type believe in magic
She like that rap and rock and roll, man
[Verse 1 - Brian Fresco]
Hey, Miss ass and that face
Yeah, a nigga see you stressed tryna keep up that pace
Poppin them xannys and addys get you through the day
Yeah you know u pretty dull just working with no play
Man I'm hopin that that books and college shit straght
Meet me at the top
My niggas we fixing to get paid
Daps to my lawyer for beatin a nigga case in the
Chi face a vega like nigga my money saved
Know my niggas dont play
Spray at you rowdy fucks
Good luck if you thinking bout a bout wit us
Good bumps for ya nose n plus good pumps fa ya baby you down ta fuck
I gotta few tats you could trace n touch
Good duff we can stuff up a Dutch n puff
And if dem niggas looking telling em we be posting up east side low end where da folks erupt
Know we still tipping been living no limit
Been flipping no slipping I stay on my pivot I stay on my bidness
I'm dunkin dese bitches they callin me griffin
Call me a eagle compared to dese pigeons dis pimpin leave pussys impaired and addicted
They callin me Pippen
Gat game for da image gat Purp fa da sippin
Wood grain fa da grippin u gata fuk wimme
And my niggas all gone ride out for they niggas and my bitches all got my back fasho
They gone ride out fa dey nigga
And best believe them your niggas if they gon ride out fa dey nigga
Cuz best believe when the shit hit the fan I'm gone ride out fa my niggas .. Bow
[HOOK]
[Verse 2 - Chance The Rapper]
She the type that type love notes
She like lucy and love boats
She the type that like butt jokes
But not being the butt
She in the cut
But being secret is cutthroat
And being lonely is cut wrist
So given head doesn't cut close
Getting faded and fucked
But a slut slit
She the type to do tai-chi
Exercise in the Chi
Sippin chai tea
Pics of her thighs on her IG
But high key 
she a bust
She a tease, she a bop
She a sleaze
Jesus christ she's shiesty
Heidi-Heidi-Heidi ho
I-d I-d I-D-K if I ever wanna say
Hello to this stank breath bitch, ho
[HOOK]
[Verse 3 - Kami de Chukwu]
Novacane and a hershey's kiss
Sugar rush fly off a gum drop roll
Heavy they heart, hold the weight of lost worlds
Say the world was mine and what's mine was yours
Never, I stay selfish
I stay deep as the sea floor
You ain't live enough life till you seen a sore sight
Now you'll probably C4
Lost peace found grief now they eyes fill with rainfall
Tear me a page in your books about me
Flowers decay y'all
And I hope every voice lift
When they try to sing about me
Who the man with the power
Same man hold the powder
She the type that's gotta have it
If you fam you eat
If you love you feast
Soul food with a side of sammy - surf
[HOOK]
[Verse 4 - Tokyo Shawn]
I'm the type to never answer
But she the type to always call
She say that she wanna travel
She say she wanna go to Tokyo
Like hey what your name is
I'm famous it's nice to meet you
After conversational time wasting
And temptations
Say she the type to that probably talk about you to people
I say no that she the type that show up at a party to see you
And say I need you
I'm ridin, but I'm rollin
Rollin inside of stolen
But I'm posted
Imposin if I get nervous
Impulsively ibuprofen
I be coaching
Approachin with chronic focus
Chronic smokin
Highest dosage
High and lows got me roller coasting
Wait
Then I ask can you stay?
Hey, can you please save me today?
She the type to contemplate
While I try to make it hard to concentrate
All the things I gotta say
Get put on layaway until the day they rot away
[HOOK]


[Produced by Blended Babies]
[Intro]
Acid Rap!
[Hook x2]
I don't even talk to them on the phone again
Leave in the AM, on the road again
So bitch, let's fuck so I can smoke again
I gotta smoke again,
 
I got shit to do
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Who smokin in my car?, it's that nigga Chano
AKA Mr. Bennett
 
AK Tony Montano
I've got some folks in low end
 
I got some folks in c-note
AK hundred dinero, you ever seen Casino?
I just got back with 'Bino
 
I got a bitch but she know
Her friends done did the Dino, that's that Chicago lingo
Flamin' hots with Cheese, and a kiwi Mistic
My dick won't even call her, cause she left all that lipstick
Niggas be on dirt, hat's why I stay on petty
I know that bangers jam, that's why my hands stay ready
Flip the candy yum, that's the fucking bombest
Lean all on the square, that's a fuckin' rhombus
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Who's sneaking in the club?, that's that young Sir Rapper
Un-saran wrap the purple, wrap that blunt under after
Smoke all out the window, cops could eat a dick
If you ain't the hitter, you just might be the lick
Flame on, flame on
 
I'm your bitch's ringtone
She like when I rap raps, but better when I sing songs
No Drake, but I get my Trey on
 
killin' in the hood like Trayvon
Shoppin' like I got a coupon, savin' like I got a cape on
Cookin' crack in my apron
, 
dressed like a nigga had 8 proms
Tell shorty I may change and I made it and I napalm
Trippy shit to watch drugs while on the clock
Acid on the face that's a work of art
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Ab-Soul]
Soulo ho ho twerk somethin', throw it back like you tryna hurt somethin'
I'm so def, I ain't ever heard nothin'
, 
my name herb, take herb, smoke herb (say word?)
How 'bout you? No dap, but I'll take a pound or two
No doubt like Gwen Stefani's group
, 
let me put my mouth where you potty, boo
(IGH!)
Them niggas pissed, need potty training, they movement shit, that's a potty train
She ain't left yet, but she probably came
 
we kicked it then I score, soccer game
She was a phony goalie, I got great aim though, don't insult me
I'll give it to ya straight, this is what she told me
My name Solo cause I'm the one and only
She only got you as a nigga on the side, that's a nigga on the side of a side bitch, homie
Then we got out a Dodge, like them Dukes of Hazzard
Music and tabs of Lucy,
 
take your chance with this rapper
[Hook]


[Produced by Daft Punk]
[Intro]
[Verse 1: Chance the Rapper]
Yo, I see you chilling on some pompous shit
Laid back with the squares like rhombuses
It's hard for me to approach as it is
It's hard for me to talk with my throat, heaven is
Shoes that is busted up, feeling dirty and scared
But I can be in a tux and still feel unprepared
My palms was sweaty
My heart was heavy
My palms was needy
My heart was ready
To be broken and then to be fixed, and I'mma let it
So I ask what time it is (is) and where you're headin
As time went on I got the nerve and said
"
let's grab a bite and a movie and
 we can
Head back to my crib and maybe chill in my bed
Maybe have a couple of kids and get wed and
"
She said "yeah, but you need to slow it" but
That's where it went, cause now you're less
Of a date and more of a best friend
And I thought my best friend would be more of a best man
I thought that maybe you who was right on Princeton
But I guess you decided that you wasn't impressed when
I wanted you to be in my lifeline
There's something about us you just might find
Peculiar, I'm not in my right mind
She quietly said that "it's not the right time"
[Hook: Daft Punk]
It might not be the right time
I might not be the right one
But there's something about us I want to say
Cause there's something between us anyway
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
I may not be Mr. Right
But I can be your Mr. Right Now
You put songs into my head
That I just gotta write down
You're looking for something serious perhaps
I can be more than just a dude that just makes you laugh
I can be more there, and less up in the lab
I'm just trying to get cash for us to live lav
So you can ride around in Porsches, and poor little recording
About horses wearing brands that cause shit
Seeing you hurt just leaves me nauseous
I wanna buy you masseuses and massages
But instead I just buy a bazooka
Take out the missiles and into all my nukkas
Give you all the time in the world
My world is less worldly without my girl
I know to you, that might sound deep and shit
But it just lets means you let me know why I exist
 so
I understand why you are pissed but
Understand without my world, it's just abyss
I wanted you to be in my lifeline
There's something about us you just might find
Peculiar, I'm not in my right mind
She quietly just said that "it's not the right time"
[Hook: Daft Punk]
It might not be the right time
I might not be the right one
But there's something about us I want to say
Cause there's something between us anyway
[Outro: Daft Punk]
I need you more than anything in my life
I want you more than anything in my life
I'll miss you more than anyone in my life
I love you more than anyone in my life


[Bridge]
I'm in the middle of nowhere, nowhere, nowhere
And I'm just looking for somewhere, somewhere, somewhere
[Verse 1: Chance the Rapper]
Yeah you like that how I did my own echo
Cause no one else could do me but me cause I'm the best though
I'm a bag of kush, you're bag the Regno
And I've been this way from the get-go
, get low
Mistaking me for him is like Geico for Gecko
Won't ever replace me with money and some background techno
Anyway so I won't toy with kids just to let know
And all y'all still playing on the blocks needs to lego
Difference between us, lies and genetic make up
XY chronology, body mass make-up
At night I sleep, all night you stay up
You're afraid of nightmares, I'm afraid to wake-up
And I tell my girl I love her every time I see her
Cause I'm afraid tomorrow that I might not be here
Cause sometimes my wrists whisper slit us and will wisp you to the other side of wisdom
Just jump off the tip of the world's tallest building
Fall on the tracks and a claim that you tripped up
Or slipped up, popped pills claimed it was a mix-up
Or the box said 2 to 4, could've swore that it read 24, damn Chance
You could've died if you popped anymore
Damn just one more, could've let me go where
Maybe God intended for me to grow here
Damn Chano keep spacing off, I swear you so weird
You're afraid of somewhere I'm content with nowhere
[Bridge]
Somewhere, nowhere USA
Ey ey ey ey ey
Somewhere, nowhere USA
Ey ey ey ey ey
Somewhere
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
You can go from somewhere to nowhere
By trolley from Maui to Molly
Mexican tamales on the border I'm in line between crazy and depressed
Maybe I'm distressed cause my damsel's not undressed
And her knight in shining armor is searching for martyrdom
Like playing a game of operation with Parkinsons
You touch the walls and you felt shocked
Cause when you touch the walls you felt boxed
Nowhere is vast, and somewhere's compressed
And my dreams need room to stretch out its legs
And nigga run around for 
miles
, with its funny self
With even more stride than the gum itself
I feel my sanity is picking all my fantasies
And reality is pulling out the man in me
But drive, could give a shit about your asthma
Just kick you in the ass, and tell you to run faster
And some weeks can pass as I last seen my pastor
And let him tell me I don't get anything I ask for
God will give you wings when you stop being the bastard
I guess I'll go to nowhere
I don't need a passport
[Bridge]
USA
Ey ey ey ey ey
Somewhere nowhere USA
Ey ey ey ey ey
Somewhere nowhere USA
Ey ey ey ey ey
Somewhere nowhere


[Intro]
Uhh baby (x2)
[Verse 1: Alex Wiley]
Blast off [uhh baby)
It's the motherfucking time now
Dug a deep ditch when i quit school, but this rapping shit helping me climb out
Me and Chancellor, fuck you tahm bout
Village shittin' on niggas in time out
When im feeling this all that i rhyme 'bout
Me and Kembe grindin' in the grind house
Asking where I wanna go, who I wanna be
My life is nothing more than ripping all these beats
And that's the way i want it im trippin'
Of the weed and that im sippin' on at least you
Tipping, fuck you mean
Gotta get mine, gotta fucking win
Gotta bring the Village, I gotta represent it
I gotta keep on pushing, gotta keep on working
I can't stop yelling fuck though, I gotta keep on shittin'
All we wanna do is get money
Seem like errbody want some shit from me
Like put me on with this and hook me on with that
Find your way up off my dick homie
Remember I used to keep the sacks with me
In the basement, watching that Rap City
Niggas used to say I rap shitty, funny
Now them niggas want a track with me
[Hook: Alex Wiley]
If my manager insults me again
I will be assaulting him
After I fuck the manager up
Then I'm going to shorten the register up
Let's go back, back to the Gap
Look at my check, wasn't no scratch
So if I stole, wasn't my fault
Yea I stole, never got caught
(x2)
[Interlude: GLC]
Yea, they're going to do it on purpose man
It's going to be haters lurking
You know what I'm talking about?
Wishing to see you fail
But at the end of the day if you got God on your side
Why the fuck would you believe in hell
You know what I'm talking about?
Hate ain't shit but the devil
Tell them motherfuckers to get up
And get up on a whole 'nother motherfucking level
Ism
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
NASA
,
Whole world wants to know what you crashed for
,
Jag off, what you jag for
Im just doing what you assholes, had asked for
When we going to home?
My eyes hurt, my throat hurt, my soul hurt
My whole church know my niggas on dirt
Lil' college dropout, blame it on Ye'
Lil' Jimmy done grown up, he's slangin' them tapes
Southside, out West, South By Southwest
Doubt my prowess, I guess 'bout now I'm fresh
Goodness gracious
,
Visionary chasing, 
Chance with a space and The
Then a pronoun
, 
and the car spacious
,
And a spaceship for the spaceship like 
IGH!
[Hook: Alex Wiley]
(2x)
[Outro: GLC]
Yea, always keep your ism at a magnificent level
That it's true, know what I'm talking about?
I come to find out there's three type of people in the world
There's those that ask what happened
There's those that saw it happen
And then there's those that made it happen
And which one are you?
Cathedral.ism


[Intro]
Steamer(6x)
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
SAVEMONEY, hot still
Nice car, don't got deal
Don't got bread, just got whip
That hot shit, them hot wheels
Hot wire, no license mate
Ridin' round with your license plate
Tan color, that iced cake
Same year as that '98
Same ear that Mike Tyson ate
Bitch comin', and the steamer gotta stop
Hide and seekin' with the cops, middle finger to the opps
And the Nina in the crotch, in the Beamer hella leanin'
Lickin' whips from niggas tweakin' and then leave em in the lot
And I hop in the top of the drop top convert, top off, ha
In a four door Volvo screaming "fuck you, like , YOLO!"
(Vic: That shit's dangerous, man, fuck that shit)
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
Go ahead nigga hot wire that shit
Come and bring it through the hood, stop by in that bitch
If a nigga wanna go and stop riding that shit
Leave it up the block, let the cops find that shit
Little SAVEMONEY niggas not givin' no fucks
Where the keys, lil nigga, gone give 'em on up
Ridin' d's, lil nigga, chrome shit on that truck
Pretty please, my nigga, for a nigga get stuck
When you...ridin' your steamer, uh
I don't know what you been told
But ain't nothin' better than stacking your cheddar
In a broke down steamer that you done stole
No air conditioning, too damn cold
Go steal that whip and then do that blow
Out here, still tippin', done flew that light
That knife just to fixin' [with Kami] to cuchero
[Verse 3: Kami de Chukwu]
Black mask and that crowbar
That's my whip, not yo car
That's my bitch, not yo broad
Screaming "fuck the opps!", it be no law
Two niggas in front, five bitches in back
Seven niggas ridin' strapped in that candy Cadillac
Sweet all in my scraper, in that steamer blowing vapor
With a lining and a taper, saving paper, see you later
So it's duck sauce on them pigs nigga!
Tricks out, so pimp nigga!
No room for them simps wit cha
Drop top with them tints dimmer
Rollin' with the famo, it be massa and the Chano
Pumping purple, tucking Camels
Got the money on the panel
Flippin' switchers, switchin' channels
For the high speed chase
But it's power to the hemi when I sip V8
Out chyeah
[Verse 4: Tokyo Shawn]
Ridin' 'round, all up in my scrape, movin' that weight
Tryna see that money I'mma make, m-move the decimal place
If a hater talking shit, okay, bang
Like a hurt leg, boy, you don't wanna play
You ain't safe 'round here, don't nobody got a cape
And I'm ridin' round bright and early, ridin' dirty
With that purple on me like a Vikings jersey
Just checked my mirror, goddamn I'm perty
So I'm all in my steamer like Stanley
Passenger seat, eye candy
Clean face, no acne, never catch me lacking
Got it hidden in the back seat
If you want it, come and get at me
SAVEMONEY
(break in song)
[Verse 5: Brian Fresco]
Peep you, lame-lame ass nigga with a sweet coupe
Creep through, no mask nigga, better keep cool
Got five seconds 'fore a nigga crease you
Hit a lick, now his whip be the steamer
Low-low to the earth,
 
so the cops can't beam him
Ain't-ain't nobody seen him, in the chop shop schemin'
Hopped out the phone booth, lil nigga hella gleamin'
Rollin' and smokin' and smokin' and rollin'
Got molly for bitches who get with the motion
My niggas be holdin', yo niggas be foldin'
I'm shooting with range, so hop out that Rover
SAVEMONEY takeover
, 
don't think this shit kosher
This handle'll knock you straight out of your loafers
My bitch, she the coldest, from over the border
We got what you need, just tell me the order
We makin' a quarter, b-bitch nigga posted up
S-s-stole yo whip, he boxed it up
Hundred blunts, donuts
Nigga stole yo whip, did a hundred stunts
Sold yo stereo for a hundred bucks
Want beef? Nigga call up a hundred guns
I be chillin', smokin' stank, like a hundred bums
Play rough, nigga, I will let this rumper? hum
Yeah
(Steamer)


This week we take a closer look at 
Chance the Rapper's
 style under the microscope. 
While it can sometimes be as sporadic as his raps
, he keeps a common theme so unusual it would only be right to highlight his unique seams!







[Intro (Chance the Rapper)]
If there was such-such-such a thing
(I wrote you a poem, naw but listen to it)
[Verse 1: Chance the Rapper]
Chance Le Rappeur?
Roses are red
Moses rose from the dead
To show his chosen souls across an ocean of red
Travel through Goliath and the burning roses to get
His Queen Esther from the lions, then return to the bed
See it's Biblical, it's science
It was written in the stars
It's pivotal we meet again, it's been a little hard
See we met a million times, Little Mama, you just forget a lot
I was your king, you used to march for me: Coretta Scott
Simpsons and cake, shrimp then the steak
Candle-lit forever, you good?
That poetry, you know it's me
Your boy, the kid, the lover
Rapping til we breaded up, or wedded up
Forever love, Chance
[Hook]
[Verse 2: LeGit]
Okay
She spotted me and moved in like a U-Haul
I swear this bitch need to curve, change it up, maybe screwball
Only good for the neck, lei at Luau
Brain only second to Mrs. Duvalle,
 
but she stalk like fee-fi-fo-fum
And go dumb, like a Bay Area poem
Whenever she peep at the kid strollin', strings attached no violin
She say, "I think about you every time my eyes open
And when they closed, I still see your face bright as day"
Well baby girl, all of that, it really is nice as May
But I'm not really about that life
Pardon me
My mistake
We seem to have conflicted interest
Cause I gotta keep that kitty on the side
No big whiz, or rap floor-mat
I'm sure this is probably stinging like a hornet
But performing is my only woman, until I start touring
But, you don't want to hear about that. Just fall back
And do me a favor, stop showing up where my house at. Bitch!
[Outro]
No for real. Like stop showing up


[Making of the Beat w/ Cam]
[Intro: Vic Mensa]
In my suitcase..
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
It's not a suitcase, more of a briefcase
I be on binness
, 
and my new place isn't a duplex
More of an escape
, 
I been gone trippin
'
Kiss the kids and kick the dogs, fix the dinner, fix the faucet
Wash the dish and wish for rain and when it pours make sure in the midst of all
You don't forget to call me to come back
Pardon me on that, I was too young
You was young too but uh, I was too young
What you want me to say?  I'm a deadbeat dad, all the sex we had was my fault?
The checks she had wasn't enough to get by, it's my fault?
I bought, a new suitcase, I be gone trippin'
Only briefly, probably wrong decision
But I can do it later if he got game, oh now he trippin'
Got his own case, he dippin', run like your Pops, junior
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
Out of state feels great but it's good to be home
Lookin' at the crib through the window
Sometimes the littlest things in life don't seem so big 'til you're grown
Take it for granted, cement footsteps smoke rings rotate with the planet
And the plan is spend it all before the market crash
"Oh Shit, red alert, panic!"
Somehow the fuel in the left wing leaked and we all went down
And my seatbelt be tight enough to keep me wired up with a plane spiralin' off in the clouds
And was lost in the dust but they scooped me up in a cup and dumped me off in a pile
Blow me in the wind, over the mountain
, 
would I owe my accountant?
What if they only found my suitcase?  Would I be on Newsweek?
What if I was a newlywed with a newborn of 2 weeks
And my flight to the UK crashed in the Yukon
And I woke up on a distant beach with a peach in my mouth
Sand in my hair, and no shoes on
Where am I?
[Bridge: Chance the Rapper]
Hit the road Jack, don't you come back no more, no more, no more...
Hit the road Jack, please come back one more, one more, one more
IGH!
[Outro: Vic Mensa]
Every other day is a trip, another suitcase, ah
Flying high with gray skies and my suitcase, been gone for 2 days, ah
Packed my memories in the bag, inside my suitcase, take it to the UK
Somewhere on the clouds, flying high in a dream


[Verse 1]
One foot in the door, one foot in the grave
One stepped on the floor, Two stepped out the way
Two glares up at one, whatcha wanna say?
One stares back at Two, Two is unafraid
Two steps up the stair, Two steps out the way
One smiles back at Two, now this shit’s a race
Now they're skippin' steps, reps just get replaced
One-two one-one 
, something's in the way
[Hook]
Tap dance, syncopate
Tap dance, syncopate,
 
simulate, demonstrate tend to intimidate, wait
Tap dance, innovate, indicate, strategize, then you can syndicate
[Verse 2]
One is ashamed, crushed, ready to run back
Two looks to One, like, listen for once, that
Fall ain't your fault, dog, that was just one step
Always a tall wall, ladders and small steps
That's why you got me, leap, shuffle ball, step
We gone play leap frog. Paradiddle. Rep
Paradiddle. Rep. Single then both step
[Bridge 1]
One-two, one-two, one-two, one-two, step
One-two, one-two, step
One-two, one-two
I one-two, step, one-two
I one-two, step, one-two
One-two, one-two, step
One-two, one-two, step one
[Interlude]
[Bridge 2]
Tap dance
When you tap dance
Tap dance
When you tap dance
Tap dance
Tap dance
Tap dance
[Interlude] (Bridge 1 & 2 repeated)


[Produced By: Shlohmo]
[Verse 1: Jeremih]
I don’t wanna wait
Your body won’t leave me alone
And I ain’t tryna play no games, tonight
Yeah you know we grown
We both ain’t tryna be alone
Show me where you got all that from, tonight
[Hook: Jeremih]
Wanna go somewhere, babe
Make you feel like a little vaycay
Girl you know you wanna be my bay, bay
Now she say she wanna have my baby
We still lighted with my crew, go
Nothing beat me and you so, low
I just really wanna see your drop top
You just want a G all in your G-spot
[Bridge]
Oh yeah, oh yeah
Oh yeah, oh yeah
She go in there, she go in there
Man shit getting crazy, hazy
With a Blasian bad bitch up in Vegas
Bitch amaze me
Shake it, I want you shake it, cause it pays you
Shoutout to your momma ‘cause she made you
[Verse 2: Jeremih]
I ain’t tryna be alone
I ain’t tryna go home
I ain’t never seen her before, tonight
Everything that you do
Honestly I’m down with for sure
Tell me where you going after, tonight
[Hook: Jeremih]
[Bridge 2: Chance the Rapper]
Oh yeah, oh yeah
She go in there, she go in there
I give my love, I give my love
She go in there, she go in
Oh yeah, Oooh yeah
She coming with, she coming with
Yo she the one, yeah she the one
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
I don’t understand why these niggas gotta hate (what’s up)
What's a rat to the cat, mongoose to a snake
You know that they looking for you, you just sit your ass and wait
But don’t do none of that looking like your ass on static
Pussy nigga you don’t want smoke
You don’t want smoke
He don’t want smoke
You don’t want smoke
[Bridge 3: Jeremih]
Yellow diamonds shining when I wake up
Bad bitch clownin' out in Vegas
Fuck your designer, yeah, we made it
Chi-Town, blow, now we major
[Outro: Chance the Rapper]
You don’t want smoke
You don’t want smoke
He don’t want smoke
(Hell nah) You don’t want smoke


[Produced by Blended Babies]
[Hook: The O’My’s]
When I was a snot-nose, my Papa told me
All you got is family,
 
son soon you’ll see –
Always hold your Mama’s hand when you’re crossin’ that street
…What Papa told me
[Repeat]
[Verse One: Maceo (The O’My’s)]
Big boys don’t cry
Catch you slippin, put a whoopin’ on that backside
Papa was a one to let you know where you stand
Looked you in the eye, Papa never lied
Back when I was younger, sat me on his knee
Said this is the kind of man you’re going to grow up to be
A man whose word is stone, always rights his wrongs –
No matter what the trouble, you got to carry on
Hook x 2
[Verse Two: Chance The Rapper]
(talking: I remember what you told me, like…)
Little Chancellor - 
Pull your pants up
Stick and move son, Keep your hands up
Somebody put you down? Better stand up
Don’t wear no Jewelry nigga, them shits is handcuffs
Don’t need no back talk, that mean don’t talk back
You going back in fall? You playin’ the fall back
Naw? Cool
, Jackson 5,
 
sell CDs in packs of 5
Better rap your heart out rooster boy cause them streets will eat your ass alive
All the darkest moments are the farthest from the barbeque
Father’s day in barber shops, fishing at the park with you
Act right when I’m not with you
, 
still askin’ what I should do
Got to watch the throne because it’s time to blow
But I got what I got, I got from you
Hook x 2
[Verse Three: Maceo (The O'My's)]
Now that I’m a young man… The devil’s haunting me
He won’t let me sleep, I see him in my dreams
And every day I wake, my soul he tries to take
But Papa taught me stay the course and pray for better days
Don’t mind what they say, be what you about
If you are who you say, no need to speak it clout
Papa’s love was strong when he held you in his arms
Could nothing ever break that bond
Hook x 2


[Childish Gambino]
Somebody tell they people what the fuck is up
I'm grindin' like a doozer looking cool as fuck
I'm grindin' I'm most hated but I sell the stage
I'm grindin' I'm most hated but I'm gettin' paid
[Chance The Rapper]
Eddy Scissorhands is workin' on my linin'
Gettin' spiffy for these bitches I be eyeing
Fredward Mercury was playin' while I'm ridin'
Down the Ryan
, 
in a Scion
And I'm flyin', but it's cool, I got insurance
On the run because I got warrants
, 
but it's cool I got endurance
In school I got suspended, but in turn I got some earnings
Could've spent it all on Thursday,
 
but I saved it for my parents
But I spent a bit on Friday, in the night I hang with Donald
I'm tired of McDonalds,
 
want a chick that cook chicano
That can't speak a lick of English, and pronounce my name like Chano
She say something something Spanish
I look back like, "Bitch, I know"
Tonight, I'mma make decisions for life
Take some lucy's boomer's dark liq' and light, some might drive
That's that shit right there that I don't like
There that shit just had to say
Shouts to the niggas that passed away
And shots for the niggas that's here right now
And shots at the niggas that got away
So sad to say, but it's all good
Niggas gon' celebrate, and wait for the day
And wait for the day shit detonate, with Alize
Like live from the Chi', it's Saturday night
[Childish Gambino]
Used to have some patience, now it's all gone
Force feed these motherfuckers eatin' foie gras
Force feed these motherfuckers not a rockstar
I'm a say my piece, these other rappers lockjaw
I don't think they like me (I don't think they like me)
I don't think I'm icy, I think I'm aight, B
Niggas wanna fight me? That's unnecessary
I don't quit for shit, that's my legendary
[Outro]


[Hook 2x]
Shawty, she got the body
She did the molly
Probably gonna do the squaddy
Right after papi
Sloppy, she extra choppy
Just did the potty
I love that bitch, the perfect thottie
The perfect thottie
[Verse 1: Chance the Rapper]
You are the prototype
I love you like you love your photo likes
When you post your life
Some of these hoes just wanna Instagram me
You out here trying to win you an Instagrammy
Instant pancakes in the morning
Aunt Jemima try to Andre Benjamin me
I'm sorry Ms. Jackson, but your daughter do dicks
Wouldn't be my old bitch if you taught her new tricks
But she do do the one thing, with her tongue ring
When she bust like a gun range
I had a couple pics, record her out her panties
But, that's just chump change
She the type of bitch that loves to say she's mixed
But when she say the roster she always say "Black last"
You know who you is and you know what it is
I love you with your black ass
You helpless thing, wish you gave me more head
And have way more self esteem
But I wish she gave me way more head
Way more then I ever gave a fuck about your self esteem
[Hook 2x]
[Verse 2: J. Cole (Snippet)]
Got it locked, I got lots of keys
Fuck nigga don't start with me
Oh my god, oh my god, [?] novelty
That what she said but she swallowed me
Your bitches had the ball, [?] niggas pass the ball
And this dick is a gift for that love degree, hey
[?] congratulations, girl congratulations
This ain't prom but can I take you home as if your fam was waiting
At the front door with that 44 [?]
[Hook 2x]


[Produced by Wes P with guitars by Drew Mantia]
[Verse 1: Action Bronson]
Bam bam, yo
So bad for your money
Twist it in a bath with your honey
Don't have to ask her she do everything for me
Shine up the balls, keep 'em looking pristine
Take a chisel to the word scope a dime for a fiend
Her dream, intoxication, 
beaver warmer than the socks of Satan
Pasta waitin' on the table with the lobster bacon
Herb butter that was crab that made the word clutter
Maravilloso, toast it to the new summer
Rock a shirt with Secretariat on it
Seabiscuit on the dress, stay guarded like the eagle's nest
Lethal stress hand-crafted by the saucier
Carpaccio with that meat, right under horse's mane
Man of the land, there's many fish in the sea
My man D ? the V I tried to christen with tree
But still, there's nothing better than smokin' weed in a Cadillac
Closest runner-up is probably hearin' Daddy rap
[Verse 2: ProbCause]
Probable pick up the pieces, perfect pair with what you eatin'
Cleanin' that plate that we serve you
Wait 'til dessert you'll be cheesin'
Na, it ain't seasonal, prices are reasonable
They regional, Chi-town to N-Y is feedin' you
Breeding crew with the best cuts
 and I really wanna make that next cut
Made somethin' out of nothin' what's next up?
Let me cool that down for a sec, yup
Chillin' on that window-sill
, 
patience for that slow-burn
Over-cooked and over-looked they chokin' on they own words
Cravin' my flavor, savor the taste to
 
marinatin'
For ten days, Action Bronson got the lobster bakin'
How 'bout a feast, table with an extra seat
Always feed a hungry homie, happy to share the recipe,
 word up
I'm thinkin' about it a little longer these days
Takin' it in and I'm makin' it trend to melt the problems away
Still with my crew, thick, pass the bread
Spread the love, ash a cig
Pour the drink, lick this shit, do that shit all over again
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
French Inhaling blow
An inch away from almost being unintentional
Attention all kids in the hall
You need extensive detentions and intervention
A two-week suspension and a bunch of whippins with extension cords
Chanoooo, trips to continents constant
Mix consonants and vowels and mispronounce it
Throw pronouns so profound I sound pompous
Sounds like hit records, shouts out Stef' Ponce
So protect your neck or it's all chances
Whatcha gon' do when them gold medals get to bronzin'
Double en-namedrop,
 threesome-themed dancers
Couple named Sandra, three of 'em flame ganja
Concerts complete carnage, what can't he conjure?
Chance'll make a zan, but you need bands ask Contra
Feel good Paris, my France smokin' on bonjour
Oops I mean hey
, oops upside your noggin'
Who's outside your window? Chano smokin' a menthol
Painted caddie, a rental, ice-pick pad and a pencil
Master Roshi
 
my master rollin' off of a Sensu
Since you were just a bastard they said the holy had sent you
[Outro: Action Bronson]
But still there's nothing better than smoking weed in a Cadillac
But still there's nothing better than smoking weed in a Cadillac


Oct. 25:     Champaign, IL          Alpha Epsilon Pi Chapter House
Oct. 26:     Pittsburgh, PA           Altar Bar
Oct. 27:     Washington, DC        The Fillmore
Oct. 29:     New York, NY            SOB's
Oct. 30:     New York, NY            SOB's
Oct. 30:     New York, NY            SOB's (Late Show)
Nov. 1:      Philadelphia, PA         TBA
Nov. 2:      Middlebury, VT          TBA
Nov. 3:      Montreal, QC             Club Soda
Nov. 4:      Toronto, ON               The Danforth Music Hall
Nov. 6:      Syracuse, NY            Syracuse University
Nov. 7:      Buffalo, NY                Town Ballroom
Nov. 8:      Oxford, OH                Brick Street Bar
Nov. 10:     Lawrence, KS            Liberty Hall
Nov. 12:     Boulder, CO              Fox Theatre & Cafe
Nov. 14:     Tucson, AZ               Rialto Theatre
Nov. 17:     Los Angeles, CA       The El Rey Theater
Nov. 19:     Tempe, AZ               Club Red
Nov. 20:     Albuquerque, NM     Sunshine Theater
Nov. 22:     Dallas, TX                Trees
Nov. 23:     Houston, TX             Warehouse Live
Nov. 25:     Atlanta, GA              The Loft at Center Stage
Nov. 26:     Nashville, TN           Cannery Ballroom
Nov. 27:     Chicago, IL               Riviera Theatre
Nov. 29:     Chicago, IL               Riviera Theatre
Dec. 3:       Oberlin, OH              Dionysus Disco
Dec. 8:       St.Louis, MO
Dec. 9:       Minneapolis, MN
Dec. 10:     Fargo, ND
Dec. 12:     Missoula, MT
Dec. 14:     Garden City, ID
Dec. 15:     Seattle, WA
Dec. 16:     Vancouver, BC
Dec. 18:     San Francisco, CA
Dec. 19:     Los Angeles, CA               Club Nokia


[Intro: Vic Mensa]
Yup
SaveMoney
 
fuck nigga fuck shawty
HP, INANNET
[Hook: Vic Mensa]
You could-you could hear my trunk bangin' hangin' out the windows
Swangin' down your block with the birdy in my lap
You can hear my smoke, burnin' loud I'm back to business
Early in the morn niggas-niggas still rollin'
And I think it's that weed got me, I'm tweakin'
Maybe that lean got me I'm tweakin'
Pullin' donuts in the beam,
 
homie I'm tweakin'
Bitch nigga you don't know me, stop tweakin'
[Verse 1: Vic Mensa]
Sound like Ray J and Chris Brown on Celebrity Deathmatch
Where the latter of the two get his neck slashed
Or slapping a paraplegic with a pair of crutches
Or wiping my ass with Rosie O'Donnell's mustache
I got Martha Stewart cooking yola
Molly in the cherry cola, rub it on your areolas
She let me cactus the cat backwards
And vacuumed the seeds from out of my black backwood
I'm an author without the aardvark
Pull tricks like Card Shark,
 
thumbs up to the camera like Nardwuar
Warhol & a Narwhal in an ark
Park the yacht in the water hit your daughter in a smart car
Heart colder than body parts frozen in ice
Chopped the digits leave the five fingers for the mice
Might pull a suicide mission and dip with the doors up
African elephants in my tour bus
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
Where do babies come from? Porkin' the stork
Poorly parked pullin' into your Porsche with a Ford
44 on the dash,
 
put a dent in your door, close your mouth
The witnesses never make it to court
Borderline stir crazy, crepes and beignet that's tasty
Especially drippin' with liquid rabies
Rail a adderall pill and cook mushrooms in my gravy
Put a hit on every YouTube commenter who hates me
I don't want to fight
I just want a quiet life and a nice little suburban place to cry at night
And an eye dropper filled to the top with cyanide
So my psychiatrist dies soon as she tries the Sprite
Sike! I love everyone
Goodnight, thanks for having me, hope your mom's not mad at me
At Penn State yellin', "Free Sandusky!"
Does he know what he's doin'? He's tweakin'
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance the Rapper]
I think the Illuminati is real
And your body's the peel and your soul is the fruit
And they goal is to steal and control all the juice
I seen way too many pyramids, that's far from Khufu
Foofoo niggas out here snakin' on the reggo
You should ask a snake where its legs go
But then again I'm smokin' on the medical
Got the white owl look like an egg roll
And that was Scooby snacks, Petco
I'm a lunatic belong inside a loony bin
I burned it down for you because I love you, now I'm movin' in
Ooh a condominimum,
 
condom in ya enema
Bumpin' Kanye like it just came out
No songs with Kendrick, we just hang out
They say a smart man looks like a mad man to a dumb man
But one man...wait I'm tweakin'
[Hook]
[Outro: Vic Mensa] x2
Sawed-off shotgun, hand on the pump
Sippin' on a 40, smokin' on a blunt
Bust my gat the Internet didn't jump
La la la la la


[Produced by Chuck Inglish]
Chance... The Rapper
10 Day
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Stupid ass student
True I got truants in Spanish
Beats by Inglish rap Chanish
Fluent, can't fly got flew in I'm foolin'
Adidas influence Nike I do's it
Coolin' with Mikey, low-key I rock
Mags on my bike, Tay like he chuck
Hockey I puck, Rockie I fresh
Saki, my cup like Rocky "Wassup"
Ohh he got two weeks ten with the foolie
Doobie sawbuck, school be too huff
Caleb my nigga, Fresco my nigga
Gon head send it up
Save Mula too tough
[Hook x4]
This ain't no game, ain't shit here funny
You got me fucked up fucking with my money
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Wavy so wavy, trendin' I'm trendy
Bending these pennies mommy done gave me
Business so savvy, savey no spendy
Drifty so empty, city so windy
Master champ Chancelor, TrapMan the Chance or
Vance the bag handler, Bagger Vance
Pants is baggy, Vans rancid, band of bad bandits
Abandoned bandanas banned from band practice
Sentence so gavel, wordplay so scrabble
Chance to split atoms slit Adams apples
Adamant Chano rat a tat vandals
Had to have at em' as an example
[Hook x4]


[Intro]
Is it playing?
Oh, oh, oh, oh
Na, na, na, na, na (x5)
IGH!
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Kiss my ass in case you get this, get the kitchen supplies
Dishes, washers, 
wishing water was delicious as wine
Well aware of when and where and who nigga did the crime
Digits, smidgets, you know numbers tell the viciousest lies
Picture pigeons could fly, vision penguins with fins
Pitch a pilot to air soon,
 
schooling fishes to swim
I can't fall for the offer, off of general p
Gentlemen, I'm a gentleman warning generally
[Hook: Chance The Rapper] x3
Justify your love
Justify the blood
Once you find your love
Don't get lost
[Verse 2: Mr. MFN eXquire]
A fortune cookie told me it's three routes
Self destruction and self actualization
The others just a quirky maze when you're driven insane by your imagination
That plain shit, same shit that always make your plane shift
From a higher plane to an off kilter course
An erroneous maze where you can't shift
Shit, ups, downs, [?] write strange [?] of the romantic thoughts
You caught your demons with the same lips
That you kiss your mama with, suck vaginas with
I was feeling honest, my honesty just a bunch of promises that I can't keep
Honestly I really love all y'all
But y'all make me feel like y'all hate me
Same conundrum Jesus faced, but I don't believe in that fairy tale
Reality's too real, how you look me in the face
And tell me that [?] that I can't feel
Shit, I really gave my soul to y'all, I believed in everything you said
I believe in everything you say, never really even fucking talk
And I toss and turn behind my bed
And I toss and turn inside my head
And I tossed my turn, switch one vice for the heist of another
I fucked thirty bitches when I would've got drunk
I told my niggas that I changed but, umm umm
[Hook]


[Hook x2: Liam of Kids These Days]
Look back cry and I think of tears
Hope I haven't wasted all these years
Maybe I'm a waste of time
But tell me I'm not wasting time
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
My darling Nicki, damn I love you
Don’t know what that means now, but I love you
I know that I was nowhere around
Holding you down doing shows knowing hoes was around
Shoulda had you til it was no one around, til I turned old, had a stroke, thirty toes in the ground
Through the fake smiles, you could’ve chosen to bounce
Before the wills and the lawsuits and the frozen accounts
Putting water under a bridge till it froze and we drown
Shouldn’t have paid for all these birthdays, the clothes and the clowns
And balloons, and as June prom time, girl’s clothes in the gowns
And if... I dont know if I should go that far..
But to see it and then to wake up and not is such a heart break
I don’t know if I should have started but…
My darling Nicki
Damn I love you
Don’t know what that means now
But I love you
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
Yeah, 
Namaste
I was calling out
Hopefully heard the sound
Would've been writing, but we were too busy tossing words around
I guess it's all connected
At the end of the day I can't be mad cause more than anything its self reflected
I shine a light into the foreground
I hope you see the floor now
Not to mention give it a couple of months and I'll be tour bound
She'll be waiting for me like she always was
But for now think about who number you dialed when you got out that courthouse
I wish that this was any consolation
For every sentence missed and lost and missing conversation
I think of you, You think of me
I think we've grown impatient
Should've used the reappointed time I feel like we've been wasting
But before my aid becomes my way man
I'mma keep it real
I need two or three mill
If not I'mma flip probably kill myself
We on the road to not see it go down that route
At the end of the day
What's the point in living life
If all your time is for you
And us is given away
What a waste
[Hook]
Look back cry and I think of tears
Hope I haven't wasted all these years
Maybe I'm a waste of time
Maybe I'm a waste of time
I don't know who I'm supposed to be (Maybe I'm a waste of time) x4


[
]
Daewalker on the beat
[Hook]
We are the people that rule the world
A force running in every boy and girl
All rejoicing in the world
Take me now - We can tr
y
[Verse 1: Gaines]
Okay they call me Gaines Mr. Down to earth and still out of this world
On this freaking grizzy bizzy B and bizzy catch you so
Well I’m out to matrix they 
 I’m the one
So much fire in my eyes it’s like I’m staring at the sun
You 
 here I come 
I’m grinding getting funds
I’m trying to be the best person I can become
They lie ‘bout what it was
What a nigga like me can’t think don’t smoke don’t drink
At least I try no lie real niggas say what round so OG
I done made some fucked up 
 but I’m a different man
Future is connected to present and I ain't looking back
Disrespect and I’ll introduce you to Edward Pimping Hand
You ho 
 ass no 
 getting ass sniffing grass
This shits advanced 
you get one 
 don’t miss your chance
My mind is free no mind control could ever silence me
Honestly I’ll never stunt you chicks you ain’t as fine as me
I’m trying to see a dynasty so deuces cinco minus three
I don’t need 
, ain’t waiting on no savior
Y'all talking big but y’all little niggas like J.J. Barea
Whoa the kid got official flow and I swear these niggas just don’t know
And the 
’s so cold even if it don’t snow
Mother fuckers better get yo’ coat before it get yo’ soul
If I’m anything ho- ho- homey I’m a king
Rock whatever the fuck I want and you girls still on my team
My dreams I’m so 
, no stopping my dedication
Yawl reach for riches and bitches
I’m out here reaching for greatness cause
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Chance the Rapper?
My name is Chance
No thing I got them hands
That Xanax be my dance
On 7-9 my land,
 on chief
Lost my train of thought but I hop on tracks and its shot down
There’s a whole lotta niggas getting shot down
Down in Chi-town
My teacher asked me, “You ever died? You ever died?
Don’t move away from here, ‘cause if you do you never might
,
It’s utopic and you hope it’s not a hoax or fucking lie
Or bogus fucking joke or hocus pocus of the eye”
Say a prayer for all my siblings out there jamming on them pavements
Yawl out there jamming on the road, They out blam-blaming on the weekend
I ain’t scared none of YOU nigga, They sneaking and they scheming
I was tweaking now I’m decent, That god damn it adol-ee-cense
Anna-Lisa keep ‘em safe, I know it’s getting hard
Right when your son’s coming up is when it get to getting dark
And we might not get no older; they just get us from the start
Better hold us while you can, While we are still where we are (oh yeah)
[Hook]


[Produced by Thelonious Martin]
[Intro]
For all the thirsty sumchins out there
Beware
For like the 147th take
[Verse 1: Joey BADA$$]
Cause when I hit it, that pussy closed for sure like she rock that V card again
She said “Joey no, don’t ever hit me hard again"
It’s funny cause I recall, hitting the score
Play calling, told her hit the floor and she started dribbling balls
My game foreign, way outta line - shit make you forfeit
The score like four-zip flow like faucets grip up on that pussy like a forcep
Aight, I done lost it
So make ya decisions, I’m seeing my visions of double women
But I play my position, in the cut like incisions
This is why I’m not hot, I’m sizzling
And it’s drizzling hoes, flows and dough, so
Foes gonna oppose,
 
roll stupid O’s
You get worn out in these clothes, plus groupie hoes
Love the nino sucio lingo
They be like “You rap? Oh bingo”
I be like “No Inglo”
I only know the language of deniro - I never lie
They never seen a Black boy fly as high past the slash in the sky
Got a gash in my eye, bleeding out
Cause when it was seeing out was worth more than the amount
Of all of the accounts, in this world I proceed to count
But it’s just mine and
I can’t find no adjustment time sweet pumpkin pie
So just get in sumchin fly
And you gon’ be my sumchin for the night
I’m in town for the day I say it’s only right
She was a fan so
She left her man right where he stand yo had mad plans for joe
I demanded a blow, whether her name be Wendy or she shy
I just want a little becky this is not a lie
[Hook: Joey] x2
Wendy N Becky, Wendy N Becky
You so sexy but you can’t apex me
After you done licked my testes, don’t try to peck me
Please respect me, don’t test me
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
We used to smoke nickels inside of Nichols Park
I paid the piper, the pickle she used to pick apart
Peppermint sticks in the middle, brittle, a little hard
Cringe when she grin like the Grinch, that bitch had a little heart
Neck covered in diamonds and hickies
Every time I fly in her city, she buying a titty
Or selling a kidney,
 
or trying to get me
To believe
 
she’s having a kid and that the kid has a moustache and raps pretty
Emoji right back like damn she funny
Thanking God for the shows, that’s that plan B money
Thinking God my mom’s can’t be grandmummy
Thanking God he ain’t never make a plan B for me
Choke holdin my wine glass, rock bottomin' out
Rock, paper, switchblade, rap got him a house
Pops got him a car, bops got him a couch
Girl got him arrested, girl got him up out
[Bridge] x4
Don’t even try to play yourself
I think you need to brace yourself
[Outro]
Slow down
Slow your roll
Cool your jets
Moving way too fast
Slow down
Slow your roll
You a bop
Going ass bitch
Skeezer ass bitch
Lying ass, tricking ass bitch
Bitch, bitch
Slow your roll, bitch!


[Produced by Apollo Brown]
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
This is six blunt rotation music
This is just got off six month probation music
This is steppin' on the beach when you're too drunk to feel a beat
This that laughing in a condo, throwin' shit down in the street
This that shouts to the Ave
Shouts to the lab
Shouts to the clucks, shouts to the strags
This for every math class that I ever had
So fuck you if I failed, and fuck you if I passed!
For shitty summaries and bummers in the past
Cause some of our teachers act as if summer was for class
Some of us is seeing summer, some of us have passed
Some of us ain't seeing summer, some of us have passed
So I'm just glad to say I'm sippin' rum up out a glass
Cause some of us is only sippin' some up off the grav
And heaven's gates look a lot like prison from the Ave
We on the ground yelling, "Give my nigga back!"
[Hook: Akenya Seymour]
And I just want to roll with my windows down
And I just want to roll with my windows down
[Verse 2: Alex Wiley]
Another weekend full of blunts and brews
Too comfortable, yelling "Fuck a school"
Ain't seen the world before noon in like a month or two
Blunts to the face, bottles to the dome
Niggas never need no cup
Livin' out dreams, never givin' hopes up
Ridin' with them Vill niggas, never givin' no fucks
In the game tryna get our feel, tryna get a deal
Tryna get a million
Just ridin' around with my niggas and them
Real white nigga man mean real appeal
We go all out 'til we fall out
Niggas get called out then hauled out
With the windows down we like to smoke all out
Drink 'til I fall out, fuck is you tahm bout boy
The Village is my brothers
It's me, Mikey, Kembe trappin'
Hella love for Chance The Rapper
We know 10 Day is a classic, on God
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper]
This is for sand in my shoes
Shout out to Oak Street
For the free train rides
Shout out to Polk Street
To the ice cream man you just on hella dirt
How you don't see us can't hear us, you Helen Keller
But I'mma save my dollars for Mary Jane
And embellish her
Inhalin' her, Smellin' her, maybe sellin' her
You niggas got cold feet, shouts to Luke Helliker
But that's my homie, my dude be droppin' hella verses
Shouts to D O C and Nu Tribe too
Man we out this jam, see how new guys do
But its still save money like a coupon
So you can catch me off of the Ave gettin' my stoop on
[Hook]


[Produced by the Social Experiment/Additional Keys by Francis Farewell Starlite]
[Intro: Chance The Rapper (& Guests)]
It could be (It could be, it could be everyday)
Everyday (It could be wonderful)
Everyday, it could be (It could be)
It could be wonderful (It could be wonderful)
Wonderful (It could be)
Hey {Me}
Everyday (Everyday)
It could be wonderful
It could be wonderful everyday (Everyday)
Everyday, it could be, everyday (It could be wonderful, wonderful)
Hey, it could be everyday (It could be everyday)
It could be (Everyday it could be wonderful)
(It could be wonderful everyday)
(Everyday could be so wonderful, it could be)
[Verse 1: Chance The 
Rapper
 (& Guests)]
Everyday when you're walking down the street (Wonderful)
Everybody that you meet
Has an original point of view (Everyday, everyday it could be wonderful)
And I say hey! (Everyday)
Heyyy! (Everyday, everyday, it could be wonderful)
(Everyday, everyday it could be wonderful, wonderful
It could be so wonderful
Everyday it could be, it could be
It could be wonderful, wonderful
Heyyy! (Everyday, everyday, everyday)
(It could be wonderful)
It could be (It could be wonderful)
It could be wonderful (Everyday, it could be wonderful)
It could be wonderful, everyday (It could be wonderful)
(It could be so wonderful)
(It could be, everyday)
[Bridge: Chance The Rapper]
It's a simple message
And it comes from the heart
Believe in yourself
For that's the place to start
[Hook: Chance The Rapper (& Guests) (2X)]
And I said Hey!
What a wonderful kind of day
We can learn to work and play
Get along with each other
[Verse 2: Chance the Rapper]
Listen to your heart
Listen to the beat
Listen to the rhythm
The rhythm of the street
Open up your eyes
Open up your ears
Get together and make things better
By working together
[Bridge: Chance The Rapper]
[Verse 3: Chance The Rapper (4X)]
I'm gonna get by when the going get rough
I'm gonna love life 'til I'm done growing up
And when I go down
I'mma go down swinging
My eyes still smiling
And my heart still singing


[Verse 1: Kevin Gates]
Lot of grievances and wish tales on the wrong niggas
K's sound like grey hounds, they long winded
Week start, high school sweetheart, what's wrong with him?
Black snake moan, tre-eight long as bone tissue
Lay on side my son and he's like ''Daddy, what's wrong?''
Few elusive habits, won't consider marriage I'm gone
I've been shot, I've been stabbed, had like cheap liquor
Slipped then got back on my feet like C. Billups
I done lost my money gambling, loudmouth rambling
Did a lot of lying 'til my women couldn't stand it
Nigga killed my brother so I took him from his family
Went and got some tears in my face, now I'm branded
All I ever wanted was some money like Sandy
Louise Vuitton shades for my dame, life fancy
Sweet face then I lick her pussy like nasty
But I ain't like her boyfriend if you was just asking
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
Wait, who is this?
Ayo, wait, I don't know
I'm doing this XXL shit, I can't really talk on the phone right now
Smack called me, I was getting some head
He said ''come do this XXL cover instead''
I said ''for sure, bust a bitch on the bed
Bust a nut on her head, tell me when and where and it's dead''
In the moment feels like a rush don't it?
Me hopping on the plane to fly to New York with no advance
From my non-existent label to spend
Money
 I'm spent, funded my tour in Europe
Paid it for myself
When a bunch of nigga's labels probably paid for the spot
I don't know, maybe not, could've been genuine
I laugh at Mr.Rogers in the hood
Told him why these niggas is brokeboys, they need reassembling
I'm Wimbledon, used to be innanet, now I'm a free man like Morgan
Free agent, three agents, the A&R man and a midget on my foreskin
Hey, Kobe, tell me how my ass taste
They should save my shit for the outtakes
I might take everyone out, flee the scene with the murder weapon
And a dick in your mouth, feet on your couch and my middle finger's up With my fucking Timb spot cause I don't give a fuck
[Hook: August Alsina]
Be on my grind and my hustle all day
Baby, I'mma shine, keep it bright always
And I be on the grind on the block all day
I'mma hustle all day, I'mma hustle all day
You know I'mma grind, I'mma hustle all day
And baby I'mma shine like a light always
You know I'mma grind, I'mma hustle all day
I'mma hustle all day, I'mma hustle all day, yeah
[Verse 3: Isaiah Rashad]
Look, I'm on this XXL getting this paper
What I told her, she was slick as a fox
Sweet as the cadence, tell me, baby, you gon' love me or not?
With my dick in her mouth
I'm just chilling, my eyes glued to the ceiling
Just imagine getting closer to God
My uncle tried to stand on money then grab on something
Then have no knots and have no nothings and can't afford that
Swerving, just left service with Aunt Berlin
The Drama got her busy, this tenant is cart serving
Serving a junkie, maybe his family or something
That said that math just be exquisite when we pimping them bitches
Don't twist a cabinet in the kitchen unless you working them riches
Hold up, but we continue, we ain't washing no dishes
Laughing niggas laughing to the cashier
I don't really give a fuck
Getting to acting baffled, should not crash ya
Told you you'd get it, nigga
[Verse 4: Chance The Rapper]
Young black boy, how he got the labels scared?
A&R's like be "Chano, you ain't playin fair"
You gon' set a bad example for the average bear
You a yogi, you should idle while in child's position
I be like, naw, these my sons, this prenatal care
I'mma show 'em how to make it here and make it fair
Take it there they could kill me and I ain't gon' care
You is just an ankle weight, lighter than some angel cake
Sweeter than some maple syrup, easier than ableton
Make a plate and make it player, make 'em play it
Just don't count your sheep before they hatch
You chickens 'fore your eggs or eat your dinner 'fore you say your prayer
[Hook]


[Produced by Stefan Ponce]
[Verse 1]
Hey, Ya! 
When the fuck you gonna grow up?
When that money gonna show up?
Thought that 10 Day shit would blow up
Got you stressed, ripping yo fro up
Smokin squares, fuckin' your throat up
And a nigga from your iPod in the party and they know ya
And your teachers wanna claim ya, They critically acclaim ya
Used to criticize your mistakes
, 
"Mr. Bennett's Mr. Famous"
Mrs. Rownd just heard your mixtape
, 
"a misogynistic mischief"
You the reason for the mishaps
, 
you should keep coming up missing
You're a top dog, You the top, dog
They can't even catch up, You so hot, dog
And it feels good, and it feels dope
You still steal shit, cause you still broke
And you really wanna drop, really really hot
Shit that they really wanna cop
, 
but they wouldn't give a fuck
If you win a grammy or if you end up in the hall of rock
Then you end up in a hole from a hammy to the top
Got 99 problems, got a 100 to the drugs
I should finish up this verse but you know I don't give a fuck
YOLO!
[Hook]
Yo-Oh-Oh-Oh-Oh-Oh-Oh, YOLO (x5)
[
Verse
 2]
Shouts out my juice, bitch, my cup runneth over
Bout now them suits fit, my cuffs button golden
So bitch suck my dick, igh, bitch, suck my dack
I been riding around in that steamer with that steamer in my lap
I swear I used to give a fuck, but now I give a fuck less
What do I think of success? What do you think of fuck fest?
You ever had a four-some? You ever been a suspect?
You ever passed the fuck out? You ever failed a drug test?
I learned from getting bumped that bumping Ye could make it be OK
All that jumping, dunking shit can't make a 3 go 'way
I been up inside the stu' for fuckin' 3 whole days
Yellin' "fuck the cops, it ain't nothing to box"
Somebody pour me another shot like SHOTS, SHOTS, SHOTS, SHOTS
SHOTS, SHOTS, SHOTS, SHOTS, SHOTS, SHOTS,
 
Drop, drop, drop, drop
Give a fuck, fuck that-that Is you going, dot, dot, dot?
Like a lot, lot, lot, lot, do the fop, 
bop, bop, bop
Don't stop, stop, stop, stop
[Hook]


[Produced by Cam, Nate Fox, and Peter Cottontale]
[Intro: DJ Drama]
Shout to Chi-Town!
Dedication 5, since '05!
Know that!
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
You feel like Kool-Aid in a wine glass
Witchyo' fine ass
You fine as two grapes gettin' stomped out by a giant cask
You the best dressed with ya breasts showin'
Like a salad no dressing
Take ya to ya favorite restaurant
Ask for the bread then fuck in the restroom
They don't ask for a pass when yo ass waltz in my dress room
You the best bride and I'm the best groom
Wedding presents got my best man at the Best Buy
Buyin' the Best of Fresh Prince for the bedroom
I'mma buy a summer house, with a rec room
And a car with no backseat and some leg room
And some strawberries and some chocolate
And a fridge and some broccoli
Cause I know you like vegetables even though I don't
I won't say I won't eat it if you chef it
Fuck it I'll hire Geoffrey to get a beverage if you should ever get parched
You feel like Ruby Dee to me, great and powerful Ossie
Who's behind the man behind the curtain?
 
Foxy
Coffee brown as the bosom I flew in on
Nose round like the wheels that my rims spin on
Lips full like the light on the dash was flickin'
Oh wait it wasn't
Oh and I forgot I'll take a microwaver oven
So we could kick the butler out and we can make a muffin
Maybe bake a dozen
My homeboy like yo sister maybe they can bake some cousins
Ooh isn't that sweet
You feel like Kool-Aid in a wine glass
[Hook: Chance the Rapper] x4
This is not a love song
This is a you song
I just happen to love you
[Verse 2: Lil Wayne]
Give you the world if it was for me
My diamond grill make it hard to see I'm lying through my teeth
And now I'm flying on my PJ, looking at the clouds
Thinking about yo ass and how it look like a big smile
I get mental flashbacks of your asscrack
Lemme get back on track...
You say I act like I don't miss you, that's because I don't act
But anyway, we can role-play or get straight to it
Sorry, my mind in the gutter, better yet sewer
And when you say I love you, I stutter, "I-I love you too"
It's Wayne's world, she say, "What is this world coming to?"
And she know me and whoever together, she hope we comin' loose
She told me that if she ain't the one, she gon' throw up the deuce
I laughed at her, we took a bath together and splashed each other
Then she got serious and said, "Tune I gotta ask you something
Do you really love me?"
 
I tried to change the subject
So I said some crazy shit to her like, "What if you and I were just letters?
That'd be unfortunate we'd have to rob a fortune teller
But I swear I think I love you, fingers crossed in my pocket
Okay that's a dead subject, you bring it up that's a zombie
You remind me of, my memory ain't what it used to be"
She said she ain't trippin', I know because I move my feet
And when she figure out that she been swindled
I'll be cleaning that love bird shit off of my window
I-I love you too...
[Hook: Chance the Rapper]
[Outro: Lil Wayne]
I mean how many times
How many times I gotta
How many times I gotta say it for it to count?
Are you counting?
I loved the pictures
I needed that I swear I did
I was just thinking about you when you sent them too
You don't believe me? I know
D5, what up 5?
I-I love you too...I do


[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Me mama love me like she love her nappy head
She sing me fables when she used to wrap me dreads
She said me look like me grandpappy, now he's dead
He never met me but he loved me, yeah he did
He was a King before me ma became a Queen
They killed him dead because he tried to stop the war
Me mama loved me like the song that she sing
But I think she loved me just a little bit more
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
A little bit less, then a little bit more
Hourglass, sand's timeless through my trough
Let it wash me away, dive in a fifth of the Jay
Mo', sip it slow
Cold nights, warm days, days don't break, they fade away
Face my watch then face the J
Faking it takes my pain away
Be a fatality, kill my salary
Dream shattering, 
trunk rattling
, drug dabbling
Dabble a dab on a battery
Energy, ?
When we gon' see this salary
Set a timebomb 'til I blow up out the Matrix and the Zion
[Trumpet Solo]


[Intro: Donnie Trumpet Instrumental]
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
Me mommy love me, like she love her nappy head
She sang me fables, when she used to wrap me dreads
She said me look like me grandpappy, now he dead
He never met me, but he loved me, yeah he did
He was a king, before me Ma became a queen
They killed him dead, because he tried to stop the war
Me momma love me, like the song that she sings
But I think she loves me just a little bit more
[Verse 2: Vic Mensa]
Little bit less, then little bit more
Hourglass, sand's timeless through my trough
Let it wash me away
Dive into a fifth of the J, Mo', sip it slow
Stone cold nights, warm days
Days don't break, they fade away
Faced my watch,
 
then face a J
Faking it takes my pain away
Be a fatality, killed my salary
Dreams shattering, trunk rattling
Drug dabbling, dabble or dab
Bought a battery, energy
, 
gpen
G when we go see this salary
Set a time bomb, 'til I blow up
Like the Matrix, in the zion
[Outro: 
Donnie Trumpet
 Instrumental]





[Hook]
I just started rolling I just filled my lungs up
I just pour my cup out I just my spilled my blunt guts
All these bitches done up, 
my niggas a hundred
And we rolling them up and keep pouring it up
It’s too late for them but it’s not for us
I just started rolling I just filled my lungs up
I just pour my cup up I just my spilled my blunt guts
All these bitches done up, my niggas a hundred
Know we pouring it up and keep rolling up
It’s too late for them but its not for us
[Chance The Rapper]
Like my women like my liquor, no light go dark
Faded like a wide Mohawk
Girl, I know you know me I'm with Michael Rocks
You could j in the middle like Michael Fox
Oh you're Chi? Me too go Sox, go Hawks
Go Katie, go Tink, Go Hard
We can live luxe do a lap go-cart
On chief on your mark get ready go start
Ooh a nigga geeked up,
 
look at all these D cups
Ooh a nigga classy, Lean all in my tea cup
Damn that Saki sneak up,
 
look how fast two weeks up
Yall tweaked,
 
two weeks too weak
I'm free to freely twist up
Hahaha at you goofy ass niggas, foofoo ass niggas
Roy Ayers like "Who that nigga?"
 
#AcidRap for you smooth jazz niggas
Thick hoes wanna juke that nigga
And everybody else wanna shank you
Breaking ankles with Banco
It’s a little too late quite frankly no thank you
[Hook]
[Sir Michael Rocks]
I'm one on one with your favorite lady
I'm in her house like central air
I’m in her hair and between her legs
I can’t lick that shit if there’s pimples there
If there’s no taste and there’s nothing there
Get my gold plate and my silverware
You pick up tabs and pay her bills
And take her kids to Build-A-Bear
Ain’t no cutting corners in the winner circle
So motherfucka you still a square
My nigga got the blue Louis Vuitton iguanas
Givenchy kinda played but it’s still ok
Man I dream of money when I fall asleep
There’s hundred dollar bills in the pillow case
My nigga Choosey gone who gon fill his space
Who gon fill his shoes you can't run his race
My money, my hundy is on my k
I don’t want it I hit it that’s all I take
I’m on liquor I’m leaning but I'm ok
I don’t kick it with niggas cuz all y’all fake
I mean my homies my homies my niggas my niggas
We cannot be split up cuz that’s how they get us
The pick of the litter the diamonds the glitter
All of this cheddar we trying to get rid of
[Hook]


Most women need to sustain the normal, wrinkle-free, along with younger-looking skin. However, skin aging is usually expected but might be slowed up in the event that the properly maintained, you must hunt for a great anti-aging product or service that may certainly supply you with the finest cause this quickest, least complicated, along with healthiest means probable Eye Product will be your answer
There are plenty of techniques inside retaining some sort of vibrant skin color such as medical procedures, botox, and others, however should you not desire unpleasant sharp needles, unpleasant lasers, high-risk and hurtful surgeries having extended healing occasion, Attention Cream is completely the best anti-aging item to suit your needs, it could completely give the identical outcome without starting hurtful medical procedures and paying out pricey dollars
Eye Lotion has very strong anti-aging things that assist general healthy skin care. It keeps your skin hydrated and moisturized so you constantly look refreshing whilst your pores and skin energized. Which could undoubtedly help make skin glowing, smooth, and wrinkle-free
Click here for website... http://mitoslimfrance.com/one-moment-essential-eye-cream-revue/


[Hook: Childish Gambino & Chance the Rapper]
All she needed was some... (x16)
[Verse One: Young Social]
I said my flow dope man it's too dirty and y'all so clean like some bar soap
And I just hope you ain't so salty just like a fucking church pope
Well I think nope cause I'm no dope you can just check my damn horoscope
I'm Pisces and I bet you don't want to fight these
Damn black kids from highland and man Orion that's my nigga
I'm popping xan in the Caravan I'm so out of fucks for these gold diggers
And I'm blowing 'los like Pacman cause I'm sandman I'm gonna pull triggers
My girl got a big ass and big tits but the face is so... Alright I guess
[Hook]
[Verse Two: Young Social]
But that shit don't fase me
Thugging hoping the po-po bros don't tase me
Got to give it up for the two that raised me
Thanks mom and dad I'll try to stop being so lazy
Motherfuck an age difference I might as well just be forty
Paying out these Asian bitches screaming out "me so horny"
Soon as December comes y'all so fucked this just a warning
It's Y-O-U-N-G Social
Chilling with the president in the oval
Fuck purple kush my loud opal
You fuck boys know I'm fucking loco
Wanna cover that Fader still
And you know I'm gonna get that Vader kill
I'm just listening to the neighbors
On the windowsill
[Hook]
[Outro]
Oh my God, oh my God, oh my God
Our neighbors, all alone, no no no no


[Intro: Jenna Newsom]
Will you call me, when you get there
And I miss your precious heart
And I miss your precious heart
And miss and miss and miss and miss and miss and miss your heart
Lord Release your precious heart (x2)
[Verse 1: Chance The Rapper]
And she wants me to get out of the drug game
She doesn't realize how much it causes me pain
I just want my son to grow up with a dad with him
My father couldn't love his kids
So he wanted to abandon them
I don't sell rocks just because I want to
I sell for my son and so that he don't have to
I know now when don't seem like no other ish (?)
But the money in my sock is my son's scholarship
She want me to work for less than it's supposed to be
She'd rather starve than to eat some drug groceries
I love my family to death but niggas weren't so close to me
And to get out on that corner every morning that takes the most of me
But lord you know now that I have the best intent


[Verse: Chance The Rapper]
Whether its reed or is ligature
I literally read the sheet like it’s literature
I’m from the miniscule the miniature
I don’t understand whatever this or that means
Means my skills is limited
But y’all ain’t hurting me I swear that I’m Hercules
Mixed with a bit of Freddie Mercury
Mixed with a little Kanye and a little MJ
Hella Ken Bennett and a little mommay
And I’m still that kid teachers thought that wouldn’t make it
I’m still that oreo that y’all niggas wouldn’t play with
I’m still that friendly, Tru said that wasn’t your friend
When they laughed and teased asking “why you hang out with him?”
And I’m still Ms. [Macs?] pet peeve
With words above yours that you would not believe
And I’m still [Ms. Nasner?] and a little McHenry
All of them must think I’m still the only memory
So let me get at them though
Let me spit at them cause
If I spit at ‘em I just might split atom
And since the apple that Adam bit
I have been so adamant
Y’all are acting just average and adequate and adamant
And my first song was for Jayden
Prayin' he’d stay alive and now he’s playing in the playpen
And I know I’m hella good with my cousin in my face
And since I’m hella good then I know I’m in my place
And if I’m hella good then I know I’m in my place
And if I’m hella good then I know I’m in my place










[Intro]
It just don't get better
It don't get better
It just don't get no better
[Hook]
It don't get no better
It don't get no
It don't get no better
It just don't get no better
[Verse 1]
I hate my bed, I hate my home, I hate my job
I hate the wife, I hate the kids, I hate the dog
I hate the sun, I hate the rain, I hate the clouds
I hate the TV, hate the dinner, hate the couch
I hate the car, I hate the bus, I hate the road
I hate the bar, I hate to drink, I hate to smoke
I hate a stranger, hate his boss, I hate his friend
I hate the womb, I needed room, I ate my twin
I hate my hands, handshakes, pancakes, milkshakes, showers and some locks on the pill case
I hate inflation, hate the store, I hate to choose
I hate the war, I hate the poor, I hate the news
I hate the late, I can't be early, hate to wait
I hate my lovers cause' the way they suffocate
I fuck to hurt, it hurt to date, I hate to date
I fuck to hate, I hate to love, I hate to hate
[Bridge]
And it just don't
And it just don't
And it just don't
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I hate to lose, I hate to try, I hate to win
I hate to cruise, I hate to fly, I hate to swim
I hate the optimistic smirks on the face of children
I hate the government and those who [?] buildings
I hate artists, hate creatives, I hate bright people
I hate darkness, I hate racist, I hate white people
I hate small speakers, I hate loud speakers
I hate great concerts, I don't like crowds neither
I hate money, I hate change, I hate hope
I hate funny, I hate strange, I hate dope
I hate charities and parodies and tragedies
I hate carrots, peas, asparagus
Virtually all vegetables, circuses, all festivals, texts that are oversexual, emotion because it's perpetual
I hate schedules, calendars, reminders cause' they just remind us that tomorrow gon' be just as timeless
I fuckin' hate you
[Bridge]
[Hook]


Chance the Rapper - "Acid Rap"

Chance the Rapper - "JUICE"

Chance the Rapper Logo













[Intro: Ataah King]
Na nana na na na (2X)
One take, One take, One take (2X)
[Verse 1: Ataah King]
Hey, Let's drop the Ambiens
For all y'all that been sleeping on me
You know this game
I'm slowly creeping on it
People on me, asking when I'm gonna make it to the big screen
In my mind already made it
Now my life is but a dream
Now these broads are everything
Anything I ever need
I used to think the secret
To success was in their jeans
So I, Yeah, you understand
I used to think to get it
Meant that I would be the man
Now I'm standing on this stage
And they throwing up their hands
Screaming "Ataah King, Ataah King"
I'm trying to understand
Who they thinking that I am
Cause it can't be me, it can't be me
But either way I'm flabbergasted
Dropped Ambition, then Ambition
And I started last year
Who would think
That I would make it this far
Only been a couple months
I'm on the verge of Lift-Off
Man that's word to Chris Bosh
You can stop the Pish-Posh
Cause I'm getting pissed off
Do not make me Rick Ross
Either way they'll double cross you
If you make it they'll be hating
Steady praying that you fall through
Stacking pieces like they Lego's
Life is not a game
But this is feeling like it's halo
You must defend your name
Or else you'll leggo of that Eggo
Got you laid low on that yayo
Sell you for a couple pesos
See that's just how my day gos
Writing rhymes
Looking for some catchy say-sos
Praying that a broad
Will hear my songs
Then get ye low
Praying inner-mind
She looks something like J-Lo
Cliche Replayed it (Replayed it)
Cliche's repainted (Repainted)
Please excuse my manners
I'm feeling a lil jaded
Picassos on my wall
And They looking a lil faded
Ambition
[Verse 2: Chance The Rapper]
Kicked off my shoes, tripped acid in the rain
Wore my jacket as a cape, and my umbrella as a cane
The richest man rocks the snatch-less necklace
Spineless bitches in backless dresses
Wore my feelings on my sleeveless
My weed seedless, my trees leafless
I miss my diagonal grilled cheeses
And back when Mike Jackson was still Jesus
Before I believed in not believing in
Yeah, I inhaled, who believed in me not breathing in
Cigarette stained smile all covered in sin
My big homie died young; just turned older than him
I seen it happen, I seen it happen, I see it always
He still be screaming, I see his demons in empty hallways
I trip to make the fall shorter
Fall quarter was just a tall order
And I'm hungry, I'm just not that thirsty
As of late, all my verses seem not so verse-y
And all my words just mean controversy
Took the team up off my back, like "That's not your jersey?"
Stressin', pullin' my hair out, hoping I don't get picked
All this medicine in me hoping I don't get sick
Making all of this money hoping I don't get rich
Cause niggas still getting bodied for foams
Sometimes the truth don't rhyme
Sometime the lies get millions of views
Funerals for little girls, is that appealing to you?
From your cubicle desktop, what a beautiful view
I think love is beautiful, too
Building forts from broken dams, what a hoover could do
For future hoopers dead from Rugers shooting through the empty alley
Could've threw him an alley-oop, helping him do good in school
Damn that acid burn when it clean ya
I still miss being a senior
And performing at all those open mic events
Eyes closed, eyes closed seeing arenas
And I still get jealous of Vic
And Vic's still jealous of me
But if you touch my brother
All that anti-violence shit goes out the window along with you
And the rest of your team
Smoking cigarettes to look cooler
I only stop by to look through ya
And I'm only getting greedier
And I'm still Mr. Youmedia
And I still can't find Talent
And I'm still choosing classmates that wouldn't fuck
Mom still thinks I should go back to school
And Justin still thinks I'm good enough
And Mama Jan still don't take her meds
And I still be asking God to show his face
And I still be asking God to show his face
[Outro: Chance The Rapper]
I am a new man, I am sanctified
Oh I am holy, I have been baptized
I have been born again, I am the White Light
Rain...rain don't go away


