Yo it's the Lake Shore Drive
Keep it live, tight, raw
You better hurry up, they can't keep it in the store
To be the format, your whole style on one beat
Insert the disk, watch a nigga press delete
Tryna flex your technique
You gettin' blasted with a TEC, that shit is mad ironic
Like Alanis Morisette
, 
you try but can't jet
Bunch of airline lyrics, rhymes for low fare
Flyin' out of O'Hare
While these no-name ass niggas wanna go there, nobodies
Livin' three blocks from nowhere, down the street from nothin'
Let me show these niggas somethin', visual aid, the page
And the nigga who fronted, word to God, they don't want it
But they wanna play the role, actin' hardcore
Watch the whole career, flow, my style is too cold
Always, forever like Luther
, 
but it ain't original
Because I stole it from the future, now I'm wanted in three centuries
The verbal killin', ask me where I got the style
Told 'em from my grandchildren, put it on files
Document it in the books
You niggas can't see me so cease the hard looks
I'll rather it get took
Live and die for rhymes, dedicated to hip-hop
Shit don't stop
Niggas they wanna know what and who's next
And you roll up in a Lex
That's the train stop,
 
my brain drop mad lyrics
I rhyme with the spirit off the top, I drop nonstop
Verbally killin', my style is ready to willin'
Y'all niggas stay back chillin'
Like EPMD y'all niggas ain't seein' me
, 
what
We're enormous, nah, do or die
I got the rhymes on the brain
They tried to bomb me on the plane so I rode the train
Before I got here [?]
I'm 'bout to save this shit, yo it's my year, what!?
Bring it on, pass it to my man Tariq
Rock the mic all week



February 13 2014       
, Bryce Jordan Center
February 14 2014       
, Baltimore Arena
February 15 2014       
, Prudential Center
February 17 2014       
, Bell Centre
February 18 2014       
, Copps Coliseum
February 19 2014       
, Times Union Center
February 21 2014       
, Mohegan Sun Arena
February 22 2014       
, Boardwalk Hall
February 23 2014       
, Nassau Coliseum


October 19 2013       
              Key Arena*#
October 20 2013       
       Pepsi Live at Rogers Arena*#
October 22 2013       
          SAP Center*#
October 23 2013       
            Oracle Arena*#
October 25 2013       
         MGM Grand Garden Arena*^
October 26 2013       
     Staples Center*#
October 28 2013            Los Angeles                  Staples Center
November 01 2013    
   Energy Solutions Arena*#
November 03 2013    
             Pepsi Center*#
November 05 2013    
     Target Center*#
November 07 2013    
             United Center*#
November 10 2013    
              Palace of Auburn Hills*#
November 12 2013    
        Air Canada Centre*#
November 14 2013    
       Bell Centre#
November 16 2013    
    Wells Fargo Center*#
November 17 2013    
            TD Garden*#
November 19 2013    
          Barclays Center*^
November 21 2013    
     Verizon Center#
November 23 2013    
         Madison Square Garden*^
November 29 2013    
               American Airlines Arena*#
November 30 2013    
             Tampa Bay Times Forum^
December 01 2013    
            Philips Arena#
December 06 2013    
             American Airlines Center#
December 07 2013    
          Toyota Center#
# WITH KENDRICK LAMAR
^ SPECIAL GUEST TO BE ANNOUNCED
TICKETS WITH* ON SALE FRIDAY 9 13 13


Ayo
Planes, trains, automobiles
The G500s with the auto-roll wheels
Pinot Grigio, got 'em on chill
See now, see me ho? I got that deal
If you tryna build, I bet you'd like to know that
My father was a Black Panther with Geronimo Pratt
And back in college, I ain't run with no frat
I just ran with the track that put the Chi on the map
Now the Roc in the buildin', UIC Pavilion
Two years ago I was just a civilian
Now every chick in here swear I got millions
In area codes with unidentified children
Hold up, I'm fuckin' up the rap
Every chick in here swear I got millions
In area codes with unidentified children
Put my hoodie on, blend in like a chameleon
Hear barbershop talk, niggas try to kill him
Take my hoodie off, they like "Ye waddup, you chillin'!"
Swear to god they just like children
Just like high school, back at my school
Just like Halloween minus the costumes
The niggas that's flickin' was the ones that's trickin'
The girls two seatin' was the ones that's treatin'
Do a test on relationship, everybody cheatin'
I used to want the Jordans that's most recent
Now I throw Jordans on the whip just to look decent
Just to get pulled over by the precinct, so frequent
It's like I'm back bein' a delinquent
They wanna know where I live, stay, and work
Why a young black nigga get all these perks
How I stack my paper,
 
got Adidas in every flavor
Excuse me officer, I don't know Rod Laver
Or Stan Smith, what they don't understand is
How I got that color in canvas


[Intro: Consequence]
Yo this is Consequence
From the mighty 
Con Man Clique
And I'm runnin' with my man Kanye West
And when I ain't got a pretty ho transporting a boy and a girl to the states
I'm either on the 1-9-2 or out in the Chi
So we gonna up yo on how we chill, uh
[Verse One: Kanye West]
It cost Kobe seven digits to pay off Bridgett
And get acquitted and break that bitch off, cause he ain't did it
Here go the Henny swig it
You know it's frigid
I got 'em chillin' in the cooler
Break out the ruler
Damn
Them the biggest tits I ever seen
We smokin' killer Cali gettin' weeded
Make it feel like Maui
Now we feel the good vibrations
So many B.I.s, so much inspiration
[Consequence]
I get inspired by the stunts to
I've run through
So many bitches in one crew
That now they riff over bones to pick
Till I find one
It's live one
Take her home and quickly do this
I need not explain this
Cause Quence is famous for totin' stainless
[Kanye West]
Hey miss
Who's there?
No time to do hair
I'm through here
The show tonight
So get right
You look aight
Let's club now
A rub down
Starts flavor while we grind in the theater
I'm tryin' to cut in the movies
I'm tryin' to give her something else to drink besides a smoothie
[Consequence]
Kids get broke when I take bank and win
With the gold chains, 
I throw game at your bitch like handball
Cause your boys all that
So fall back
I be that real for '03 till
Chorus: [x4]
[Kanye West]
This is how we chill from '03 until
[Consequence]
This is how we chill for '03 till
[Verse Two: Consequence]
My mack game does me well
And makes them hoes want to go and kiss and tell
All of Quence's business
I 
cause dizziness
Any time I got to go and slap a silly trick
[Kanye West]
Niggas is jealous cause we in drops
The cops wanna stop us about every four blocks
Cause what we smokin' them sacks got no seeds
And what they got in they pockets is no cheese
[Consequence]
When I'm postin' you better tell them hot heads, "Stay cool"
Or exit because I'm the exception to the rule
I'm reppin' to the dudes blocks with two Glocks
To bury ya
When they tear they ain't jammin'
Them cannons will make you drop
So I'm doin' tons of indo, showin' off for hoes
Basically
My ace has been
Makin' them sick tracks while I was shootin' pornos with your wisdom
[Kanye West]
Now bring some more stacks
Before you ask
About the price of the tracks
The game on smash
Look
Don't change the facts about these plaques
Because in fact
My freestyle hours over powers
Brothers can't hack it
Sensitive to truth and mack bitch
'03 me, Quence and 
Plain Pat
 bitch
[Hook]


[Talking: Jay-Z]
Uhh uhh uhh
You ready B? Let's go get 'em
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Look for me!
 
Young, B
Cruisin down the Westside Highway
Doing what we like to do, our way
Eyes behind shades,
 
this necklace the reason
All of my dates been blind dates
But today, I got my thoroughest girl wit me
I'm mashing the gas, she's grabbing the wheel, 
it's trippy how hard
She rides with me - the new Bobby and Whitney
Only time we don't speak is during 
She gets Carrie fever
, 
but soon as the show is over
She's right back to being my soldier
Cause mami's a rider, and I'm a roller
Put us together, how they gon' stop both us?
What ever she lacks, I'm right over her shoulder
When I'm off track, mami is keepin me focused
So let's lock this down like it's supposed to be
The '03 Bonnie and Clyde, Hov' and B
[Hook]
[Jay] 
All I need in this life of sin, is me and my girlfriend
[Bey] 
Down to ride 'til the very end, it's me and my boyfriend
[Jay] All I need in this life of sin, is me and my girlfriend
[Bey] Down to ride 'til the very end, it's me and my boyfriend
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
The problem is, you dudes treat the one that you loving
With the same respect that you treat the one that you humping
That ain't 'bout nothing - 
if ever you mad about something
It won't be that; oh no it won't be that
I don't be at, places where we comfy at
With no be-atch; oh no you won't see that
And no, I ain't perfect - nobody walkin this earth's surface is
But girlfriend, work with the kid
I keep you working that 
Hermes Birkin bag
Manolo Blahnik Timbs
, 
Aviator lens
600 drops, Hercedes Benz
The only time you wear Burberry to swim
And I don't have to worry, only worry is him
She do anything necessary for him
And I do anything necessary for her
So don't let the necessary occur, yep!
[Hook]
[Beyoncé]
(Talk to 'em B)
If I was your girlfriend
I'll be there for you, if somebody hurts you
Even if that somebody was me
Yeah-hee (break it down for 'em, B)
Sometimes I trip on how happy we could be
And so I put this on my life
Nobody or nothing will ever come between us
And I promise I'll give my life
And all of my trust if you was my boyfriend
Put this on my life
The air that I breathe in, all that I believe in
I promise I'll give my life
And all of my trust if you was my boyfriend
[Hook]


[Intro]
It was all a dream
[Refrain: Faith Evans]
Last night I had a dream
Thoughts was racin through my head, it was all a dream
Felt so real to me
This is what was said
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Had a dream I said
Bout who he said
Bout B.I.G. I said
That's big he said
Dig what he said, proceed he said
Indeed I said, so
Breathe I did
Don't repeat what I say I said, he said nothing
He agreed with his head
He just nodded like this
What I believe to be a yes I repeated what was said
It came to me like a whisper last evening I said
What's the deal playboy, was the greeting he said
First thing I wanted to know, what's the reason he was dead?
More money, more problems, better believe it he said
Careful what you wish for you might receive it he said
I see I said, jealousy I said
Got the whole industry mad at me I said
Then B.I. said,
 
Hov
 
remind yourself
Nobody built like you, you designed yourself
I agree I said, my one of a kind self
Get stoned every day like Jesus did
What he said, I said, has been said before
Just keep doin your thing he said, say no more
[Refrain]
[Faith Evans]
Was it all a dream - tell me
Was it all a dream, was it a dream
Was it all a dre-eeee-eeeee-eeam
I gotta know {*"It was all a dream"*}
Was it all a dream - was it a dream
Was it all a dream, a dream
Was it all a dre-eeee-eeeee-eeam
[Verse 2: Notorious B.I.G.]
It was all a dream
I used to read Word Up! magazine
Salt-n-Pepa and Heavy D up in the limousine
Hanging pictures on my wall
Every Saturday, Rap Attack, Mr. Magic, Marley Marl
I let my tape rock til my tape popped
Smoking weed and bamboo, sipping on private stock
Way back, when I had the red and black lumberjack
With the hat to match
Remember Rapping Duke, duh-ha, duh-ha
You never thought that hip-hop would take it this far
Now I'm in the limelight cause I rhyme tight
Time to get paid, blow up like the ........
Born sinner, the opposite of a winner
Remember when I used to eat sardines for dinner
Peace to Ron G, Brucey B, Kid Capri
Funkmaster Flex, Lovebug Starsky
I'm blowing up like you thought I would
Call the crib, same number same hood, it's all good
And if you don't know, now you know, nigga
[Verse 3: Jay-Z, acapella]
I see I said, jealousy I said
Got the whole industry mad at me I said
Then B.I. said, Hov remind yourself
Nobody built like you, you designed yourself
I agree I said, my one of a kind self
Get stoned every day like Jesus did
What he said, I said, has been said before
Just keep doin your thing he said, say no more


[Produced by Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Intro]
*Skit*
[Hook]
I don't wanna be famous, I just wanna be rich
40 mill with some acres, makeup for my bitch
I don't fuck with these niggas, stop pretending and shit
I don't wanna be famous, I just wanna be rich
[Verse 1]
I don't wanna be famous
Fuck around, be a Lennon and a fan leave you brainless
All in the paper, gettin' buried  by a neighbor
While all of your relatives spendin' all the money that you gave 'em
Fuck it, don't save 'em
Let that boy drown if he don't float, guess he wasn't made for it
My nigga hold it, hold it down, listenin' to underground
Poppin' knuckles cause these niggas wanna bring me down
Put your face in the dirt like 4th down
Niggas wanna test, but we will never fail
I'm layin' low in my day clothes
Can't get a fuckin' meal at Pollo Loco without takin' photos
Man, these little crazy niggas (loco)
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I don't wanna be famous
Flip a finger, middle finger, let 'em know that I'm dangerous
All my niggas bangers, Chevy riding swingers
And my bitch'll fight ya, Hilary Swank ya
Take your bitch, we ain't even swingers
Nigga, try your luck, think it's all entertainment
You all in arraignment, snitchin' to the plaintiff
Who, what, where? My niggas stay nameless
Knock down yo' doo' for that dough
My niggas they go when I say go
These bitches fuckin' cause they hoes
They hoes for that motherfuckin' fame
[Hook]
[Outro]
We don't fuck with you, we don't fuck with you
I don't need the proof
We don't fuck with you, we don't fuck with you
Nigga, that's the proof
Niggas talkin', that's bulletproof
Run and shoot
Niggas talkin' like they bulletproof
My niggas, they run and shoot
[Skit]


[Produced by Jon Brion & Kanye West]
[Hook]
Why everything that's supposed to be bad make me feel so good?
Everything they told me not to is exactly what I would
Man, I tried to stop man, I tried the best I could
But 
(You make me smile)
[Verse 1]
What's your addiction? Is it money? Is it girls? Is it weed?
I've been afflicted by not one, not two, but all three
She's got the same thing, about me, but more, about us
She's coming over, so I guess, that means, I'm her drugs
Just let me peek now, I mean damn, I'm so curious
She's got a lover, so the lies, and the lust, is a rush
Time's of the essence, I need, you to be spontaneous
Roll up the doja,
 
Henny and Coca-Cola
Then I'm co coming over cause it's never over
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I see the emotion in your eyes, that you, try not to show
We get the closest when you high, or you drunk, or you blown
So I pour the potion, so we could both get high, as we could go
Then I'll get the lotion, and do somethin' to me, when your thighs is exposed
There's no turning back now, I mean I don't mean to impose
Not now but right now,
 
I need you to undress, and then pose
I'm into that now, catch a vibe, when the doors, get closed
Roll up the doja,
 
Henny
 and Coca Cola
And I keep co coming over
 
cause it's never over
[Hook]
[Outro]
I just wanted to ask you
Just wanted to um, let me, how would I put this uhh
Let's say all your friends, remember the one
You said if you ever she would be the one
Ok, ok, ok (You make me smile with my heart)
I was thinking, hypothetically
I mean don't take this seriously
Don't take me: I mean just, uhh, not credibly
I'm feeling incredibly, I mean let it be
I just let it be
I mean you, her and me (You make me smile with my heart)
I mean you, her and me
Maybe, baby, baby
You know I was just kidding
Unless you gon' do it
 (You make me smile)


[Produced by Jeff Bhasker & Kanye West]
[Musical Interlude - Produced by Danvers, West, Dean, Bhasker]
[Hook: Rihanna]
All of the lights, all of the lights
Turn up the lights in here, baby
Extra bright, I want y'all to see this
Turn up the lights in here, baby
You know what I need
Want you to see everything
Want you to see all of the lights
[Elly Jackson]
Fast cars, shooting stars
Until it's Vegas everywhere we are
If you want it you can get it for the rest of your life
If you want it you can get it for the rest of your life
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Something wrong, I hold my head
MJ gone, our nigga dead
I slapped my girl, she called the feds
I did that time and spent that bread
I’m heading home, I’m almost there
I’m on my way, heading up the stairs
To my surprise, a nigga replacing me
I had to take him to that ghetto university
[Pre-Hook: Kanye West]
Cop lights, flash lights
Spot lights, strobe lights
Street lights
Fast life, drug life
Thug life, rock life
Every night
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Restraining order, can’t see my daughter
Her mother, brother, grandmother hate me in that order
Public visitation, we met at Borders
Told her she take me back, I’ll be more supportive
I made mistakes, I bumped my head
Courts sucked me dry, I spent that bread
She need her daddy, baby please
Can’t let her grow up in that ghetto university
[Pre-Hook]
[Hook]
[Bridge: Kid Cudi]
Getting mine, baby
Got to let these niggas know
Getting right, babe
You should go and get your own
Getting mine, baby
Got to let these niggas know
Getting right, babe
You should go and get your own
[Verse 3: Fergie]
Unemployment line, credit card declined
Did I not mention I was about to lose my mind?
And also was about to do that line
K, Okay, you know we going all the way this time
We going all the way this time
We going all the way this time
We going all the way this time
We going all the way this time
We going all the way this time
[Hook: Choir]
[Outro: Alicia Keys & 
Elton John
]
I tried to tell you but all I could say was ohh
I tried to tell you but all I could say was ohh
I tried to tell you but all I could say was ohh
I tried to tell you but all I could say


Gimme that '94 Puff shit, Ali
I'm so appalled, Louis Vuitton draws
The shit, a booth for me is a bathroom stall
If you're not fond of me, you're comedy, Little Duval
I have a lot of flaws, I'm human before all
I wake up in the morning smell some coffee, then tell your bitch to get off me
Mos Def, word to every autopsy
Man that boy bad, man that boy spaz
'Til he crash like Sandra Bullock and Luda on the ave
He changed his name, he a conscious rapper
Naw mutha'fucka I'm just Compton's rapper
I might spit some intricate shit for retards not to get
But really I'm just as rude as Marshall Mathers
Is that a contradiction? He contradicting himself again?
Of course that's a contradiction, the fuck you think life is?
We not like like Christ is
We all want ices and devices to make the bitches say I like this
People don't understand why I went southpaw
I looked in the mirror and said I can't be like y'all
I can't be like Game, I can't be like Eazy
To get in this rap game, I know it won't be easy
Cause my shit different
I know
He from Compton, where he from, have he killed before?
Truth is, I ain't the most ruthless, but I'm not cupid
Before she had two kids my momma worked two gigs
To get out Chicago
To move right back to another ghetto
, 
on Sante Fe playing the lotto
I used to want a champagne two door Tahoe
Until I seen that same truck shot by five-o
Dead with his eyes closed, y'all should've seen him
Off a gallon of cough syrup, but rifles had leaned him
That's why these tough rappers man I don't believe 'em
Y'all wanna be 'em, I wanna grab bats and beat 'em
So they can feel the pain of the blocks I'm from
Where my heart turned numb
And the powder and the shells come up off that gun
Come up off your chain, or come up off your life and have a fatherless son
It's the syllabus for the ignorant militant mind
'quivalent crimes for jail sentencin'
No one preventin' this war
You sure, you sure
Sure as the edges on every ocean, now let's explore
The Kendrick Lamar LP I been promotin' for 'bout a month
Don't worry its comin' soon, like a fast nut
I never be gassed up, some labels they passed up
Now the industry crashin', I guess they got bad luck
Your bad, you don't write neither? There goes another fad
Shit I write ether
I get it in like the Vanna on Wheel of Fortune forcin' your forfeit
With the strength of the prime forces of four fork lifts
This is very extra necessary
This extra scary, 
this is Amityville
This the Exorcist on ecstasy pills
And if I can't do it my integrity will
Head dog wishes, 
every Compton bitch is
I mean this shit is
Fucking ridiculous
Fucking ridiculous
They all got a fat ass but lower case titties
Now I gotta mix and match, jungle fever, white and black
Double D, Brittney, Becky get your mouth intact
Reg call 'em Jabberjaw, she gon' hop skip and jog
Just to read my twitter blog
Man these hoes pitiful
And to you bloggers that say I'm weak
You know how long I took to chop this fuckin' beat?
Y'all don't 'preciate shit
All y'all do is hate shit
And if I don't say shit y'all still say I ain't shit
And that's ridiculous
I mean that shit is
Fucking ridiculous


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook: Syleena Johnson]
Oh when it all, it all falls down
I'm telling you all, it all falls down
Oh when it all, it all falls down
I'm telling you all, it all falls down
[Intro: Kanye West]
Yeah, this the real one, baby
Uh, Chi-Town stand up
Southside, Southside
We gon' set this party off right
Westside, Westside
We gon' set this party off right
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Man I promise, she's so self-conscious
She has no idea what she's doing in college
That major that she majored in don't make no money
But she won't drop out, her parents will look at her funny
Now, tell me that ain't insecurr
The concept of school seems so secure
Sophomore, three yurrs,
 
ain't picked a carurr
She like, fuck it, I'll just stay down here and do hair
Cause that's enough money to buy her a few pairs of new Airs
Cause her baby-daddy don't really care
She's so precious with the peer pressure
Couldn't afford a car so she named her daughter Alexis
She had hair so long that it looked like weave
Then she cut it all off, now she look like Eve
And she be dealin' with some issues that you can't believe
Single black female addicted to retail, and well
[Hook: Syleena Johnson]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Man I promise, I'm so self-conscious
That's why you always see me with at least one of my watches
Rollies and Pasha's done drove me crazy
I can't even pronounce nothing, pass that ver-say-see!
Then I spent four hundred bucks on this
Just to be like, nigga you ain't up on this
And I can't even go to the grocery store
Without some Ones that's clean
 
and a shirt with a team
It seems we living the American dream
But the people highest up got the lowest self-esteem
The prettiest people do the ugliest things
For the road to riches and diamond rings
We shine because they hate us, floss cause they degrade us
We trying to buy back our 40 acres
And for that paper, look how low we
 
a stoop
Even if you in a Benz, you still a nigga in a coupe
[Hook: Syleena Johnson]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I say fuck the police, that's how I treat 'em
We buy our way out of jail, but we can't buy freedom
We'll buy a lot of clothes when we don't really need em
Things we buy to cover up what's inside
Cause they make us hate ourself and love they wealth
That's why shorty's hollerin' "where the ballers at?"
Drug dealer buy Jordans, crackhead buy crack
And a white man get paid off of all of that
But I ain't even gonna act holier than thou
Cause fuck it, I went to Jacob with twenty-five thou
Before I had a house and I'd do it again
Cause I want to be on 106 and Park pushin' a Benz
I want to act ballerific like it's all terrific
I got a couple past due bills, I won't get specific
I got a problem with spendin' before I get it
We all self-conscious, I'm just the first to admit it
Now Syleena, you just like a safe belt, you saved my life


[Kanye West talking]
I need, I need L-Boogie
Remember they used to call you that?
What you say, Lauryn?
I'mma tell 'em
[Lauryn Hill sample]
Oh when it all, it all falls down
I'm telling you all when it all falls down
(Oh when it all)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Man I promise, she's so self conscious
She has no idea what she's doing in college
That major that she majored in don't make no money
But she won't drop out, her parents will look at her funny
Now, tell me that ain't insecure
The concept of school seems so secure
Sophmore three years ain't picked a career
She like fuck it, I'll just stay down here and do hair
Cause that's enough money to buy her a few pairs of new Airs
Cause her baby daddy don't really care
She's so precious with the peer pressure
Couldn't afford a car so she named her daughter Alexis
She had hair so long that it looked like weave
Then she cut it all off now she look like Eve
And she be dealing with some issues that you can't believe
Single black female addicted to retail and well
[Hook: Kanye West]
Uh, and when it falls down who you gon' call now?
C'mon c'mon, and when it fall's down
[Lauryn Hill sample]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Man I promise, I'm so self conscious
That's why you always see me with at least one of my watches
Rollies and Pasha's they done drove me crazy
I can't even pronounce nothing, pass that versace!
Then I spent 400 bucks on this
Just to be like nigga you ain't up on this!
And I can't even go to the grocery store
Without some ones that's clean and a shirt with a team
It seems we living the american dream
But the people highest up got the lowest self esteem
The prettiest people do the ugliest things
For the road to riches and diamond rings
We shine because they hate us, floss cause they degrade us
We trying to buy back our 40 acres
And for that paper, look how low we a'stoop
Even if you in a Benz, you still a nigga in a coupe
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Lauryn Hill sample]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I say fuck the police, that's how I treat 'em
We buy our way out of jail, but we can't buy freedom
We'll buy a lot of clothes but we don't really need em
The things we buy to cover up what's inside
Cause they made us hate ourself and love they wealth
That's why shorties holler, "Where the ballers at?"
Drug dealers buy Jordans, crackheads buy crack
But the white man get paid off of all of that
But I ain't even gonna act holier than thou
Cause fuck it, I went to Jacob with 25 thou
Before I had a house
 
and I'd do it again
Cause I wanna be on 106 and Park pushing a Benz
I wanna act ballerific like it's all terrific
I got a couple past due bills, I won't get specific
I got a problem with spending before I get it
We all self conscious I'm just the first to admit it
[Hook: Kanye West]
Dont' stop that shit, keep that shit
Keep that part where I ran out of breath
We ain't doing no punching, man
That's that fake shit
If I was on stage, how I gotta spit it?
It's from the heart and shit
Might cause shortness of breath, ya know?
Couldn't have got nobody better for the job
Thank you very much to this beautiful
Beautiful young lady that's inspired me definitely
[Lauryn Hill sample]


[Verse 1 - Lil Wayne]
Lights on, I see your face
She eat me up, she got expensive taste
I see you dreaming, but you still awake
Big slices, that's how you cut the cake
It's cold as hell,
 
I show and tell
Weezy home, our nigga out of jail!
In this "give or take" world I got what it takes
Put you out your misery: Kathy Bates
I'm Young Money, I'm Cash Money
If we could buy time I'd spend my last money
Now I'm spending time,
 
you in the blind
This little light of mine, I'mma let it shine
Bright lights, night lights, headlights, shh
No lights but them infrared lights
Long life, don't like to ask twice
You killing me baby, this the past life
[Hook - Rihanna]
(All of the lights)
Turn up the lights in here, baby
Extra bright, I want y'all to see this
Turn up the lights in here, baby
You know what I need
Want you to see everything
Want you to see all of the lights
[Verse 2 - Big Sean]
Ready, set, go
Go, go, go, go
Go til you can't go no more
I'm ill times ill, dope plus dope
"Westside bitch," quote, unquote
Woah there boy, don't go there ho
If you cross that line I might overload
I swear these lights be talking to me
But I can't read Morse Code
Why every rapper named "Big" got bodied?
But every rapper named "Sean" got money?
Well I guess my chances are 50/50
But my vision is 20/20 so I be counting a hundred 100's
Oh my Allah,
 
Lordy lordy lordy,
 
I took your chick
Now you want beef and I am chuckling like I'm Porky
Cause you spend all day with her spooning
I spend all night with her forking
There's a one-way ticket to Hell and
They want these bullets to book it for me
I'm shitting on every statistic that said I'd be dead or fuckin broke
This is history, your kids' kids' kids' kids' kids gonna book report me
And I think they want to murder me
I'm shining hard, because bitch I'm an emergency
[Hook - Rihanna]
[Bridge - Big Sean]
So good, so good, Westside, so hood
I do it.. B. I.... G
[Verse 3 - Drake]
Bad decisions, good intentions, man I'm riding
Weezy with me, I just stepped out of the strip club
Made 5000 look like 50
I spend all my time in Houston, smoke that kush but I don't do Whitney
I don't do Britney, I don't do Lindsay
I made $2 million since last Wednesday
And I hate y'all! Y'all got too much free time
Saying I don't drop shit, everything gon be fine
Worrying about your own girl, trying to see if she's mine
Nigga she's with ME when she tells you she needs some "me time"
It's our time, so fuck y'all!
I'm really about to go Spring Break now start taking shots in this muthafucka
And you didn't have all that ass last month girl
What, you get some shots in this muthafucka?
Yeah, we got the Roc in this muthafucka
You thought niggas going pop in this muthafucka?
Young Money, power, respect in this bitch
You would think we got the LOX in this muthafucka
I made mistakes, I made some bread
I even made a way for them to get ahead
To my surprise, nobody replacing me
Take Care and Carter IV it won't be long 'til they can see the lights
And I'm on one, I got one
You a pussy nigga,
 
I'm not one
So call it a night, call it a night
And I run this, so y'all know that
I take the purple and pour that
All in the Sprite, all in the Sprite


[Intro: Kanye West & Stromae]
Throw your hands in the sky right now
(Alors on danse)
Throw your hands in the sky right now
It's going down
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Unfortunately for the rest of ya’ll
I’m way better than the best of all
And even though they focus on just the flaws
They still gonna annihilate the festivals
And we still gonna sip Dom Perignon
And still gonna eat the filet mignon
Yeah, yeah, yeah I’ve been known to cover up my eyes
With the Ray Beons
[Refrain: Stromae & Kanye West]
Alors on danse (x3)
Alors on,
 throw your hands in the sky right now
Alors on
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Flashing lights, the stress of life
Its way too much to handle in one night
Live this life like there’s no tomorrow
Wake up in Paris with a Russian model
Throw your hands in the sky
If anybody got five dollars in your pocket right now
I call this club Titanic
Why, cause it’s going down
[Refrain: Stromae & Kanye West]
Alors on danse (x4)
Alors on chante
Lalalalalala, lalalalalala
Alors on chante
Lalalalalala, lalalalalala
Alors on chante
Throw your hands in the sky right now
Alors on chante
Throw your hands in the sky right now
Et puis seulement quand c'est fini
Alors on danse (x5)
[Verse 4: Gilbere Forte]
Roll call in the club
Life’s a bitch feel her up
She be in my mind like a microchip
I’m ready to blow like nitroglis
Gone gone like a light so trick
I am on some psycho shit
Dance floor every night my bliss
Fed up with the rub don't bite your lip
Bon T.R.S. and pure gold
Max this out in euros
Bartender fill it up till I can’t remember
Feeling hot summer nights in the winterr
I’mma better my life till we all sit up
Since we are here we are live
Ye and I make you touch the sky


[Produced by No I.D. and Kanye West]
[Intro x3: Jay-Z]
You either love me or leave me alone
[Hook: Kid Cudi]
Oh, they want me to fall (fall)
Fall from the top (top)
They want me to drop (drop)
They want me to stop (stop)
They want me to go (go)
I'm already gone (already)
The sh
it that I'm o
n (hey)
I'm already home
[Bridge: Jay Z]
Hey, I'm already home
Now one more 'gin
[Hook]
[Verse 1]
These niggas want me to go,
 
don’t they know that I'm gone
They know I'm space shuttle level, they need oxyg-g-g-gen
Don't they know that they boring? Don’t they know that I yawn?
Only time they exciting is when they mentioning Shawn
Seen Single White Female when she dyed her hair blonde?
Sometimes I look at these rappers, the movie remind me of them
Somebody turn these boys off,
 
don't they know that I'm on
Can't they see that it's foolish to try and kill me with songs
What the fuck are they Lauryn, they killing me softly
You talk me to death, only thing you can do to him
I open the door for them, what else can I do
These niggas want me to walk for them
Somebody talk to them before I go off on them
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I taught 'em 'bout fish scale,
 
they want me to fish for them
They want me to catch clean then cook up a dish for them
All of this just for them or they got a diss for him
They want me to disappear like it's gon shift for them
They say that I'm in the way, they want me to sit for them
But what they admitting is
 
they ain't got shit for him
And really the fact is, we not in the same bracket
Not in the same league, don't shoot at the same baskets
Don't pay the same taxes, hang with the same bitches
So how am I in the way, what is it I'm missing?
Nigga I been missing, nigga I been gone
The shit that you just witnessing I been on
And as for the critics, tell me I don't get it
Everybody can tell you how to do it, they never did it
Now these niggas is mad,
 
oh, they call me a Camel
But I mastered the drought,
 
what the fuck I'm an animal
Half man half mammal,
 
my sign is a Sadge
This is just what I planned to do, oh, don't be mad
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I’m in The Hall already,
 
on the wall already
I’m a work of art, I'm a Warhol already
On another level, on another plane already
H-O-V, I got my own lane already
I done cooked up the rock already
So why the fuck can't ya'll get hot already
Put your name in the pot already
Niggas compare me to Biggie and Pac (already)
Like I'm gone already
And I am nigga I'm already home already (already)
If ya'll can't already see
I ain't worried about ya'll cause I'm already me (already)
Do you already, enough with the complaining, boo-hoo's already
Eat food already 
ain't nothing given you gotta claim your shoes already
[Bridge]
Yeah so in summation I don't know who you racing
I'm already at the finish line with the flag waving
Come on
[Hook] x2


[Verse One: Kanye West]
On a scale of one to ten, what do you rate yourself
Here's some champagne, hydrate yourself
I know I'm lookin' good, you lookin' great yourself
I mean you shittin' on these bitches, you should hate yourself
My style so cold I could skate myself
But I go so hard I could make it melt
I mean the flow so solar every bar
Could power an electric car
My, my, my, whips is side-by-side
He just talkin', mine's outside
Do you mind if I
Take you on a test
Do you have all-wheel drive
And if that baby purr, I'm gonna baby her
Bitches gon' hate and maybe worse
Cause your ice so brrr I copped you a baby fur
Just to work
I know you was on pur-pur
But this is a whole new arena
See, niggas come by talkin' bout they make it rain
I'll make that bitch Katrina
Mr. Kanye Omari,
 
with my Entourage, no Ari
And a motorcycle jacket, no Harley
She said dude, that's cool
Gnarly
[Hook: 4X]
Alright alright, alright
Alright alright, alright
Alright alright, alright
Alright, alright
[Verse Two: Twista]
Twista where you at
Abracadabra, did he vanish
Hurry up and come out
But I ain't want to panic
I say that I'm in the zone
But they don't understand it
Physically I'm here but mentally I'm on another planet
And it only kinda made 'em look at me like I was stupider
Now they askin' which planet, is it Jupiter
So I let the money show cause I know stacks could talk
I'm mackin' on bitches with my intergalactic thoughts
In my Mercedes Benz
Pull up on a chick and holla at her and her lady friends
Like as rich as an Arabian
I'm kickin' pure flows
Euros they pay me in
For what I put together in the dungeon
I'm lookin' for a UK chick with a nice onion
Never beat it up like Paul Bunyan
And I can't believe they let an American Werewolf in London
Especially when drinking Gs with a tonic
Steady be trippin' while smokin' on the hydroponic
When I spit it like this they be callin' me bionic
Kanye with the Twist, nigga, how ironic
And I'm astonished haters don't wanna see me on
They wanna know how Twista get the easy dome
Swag off the chain, twenty-threes be chrome
Artful Dodgers with the Yeezys on
Gone
[Hook]
[Verse Three: Twista]
I'm blowin' on flame but yours is all white
And I'mma pull up in the Bentley all white
Step up in the club with nothing but all dykes
Sippin' on some Louis and partyin' all night
Phony-ass people, I don't feel they demeanor
So I hop in the rocket and go and chill over Venus
One of rap's heroes, who came from zero
Makin' something out of nothing, call me Gilbert Arenas
Now I'm fuckin' with divas that rock the stadiums
Blow my brains back 'til my face be numb
I am the shit
It don't make me numb
Rockin' wit a swagger like I got an eight-feet gun
And my flow be colossal cause I spit the impossible
Whether with rhythm no limit to what I can do
See through a prism when I conquer an obstacle
And always get money no matter how illogical
I follow through because, uh
[Hook] - 10X


[Verse 1]
It's amazing, I'm the reason
Everybody fired up this evening
I'm exhausted, barely breathing
Holding on to what I believe in
[Hook]
No matter what, you'll never take that from me
My reign is as far as your eyes can see
It's amazing, so amazing, so amazing, so amazing (X2)
It's amazing
[Verse 2]
I'm a monster, I'm a killer
I know I'm wrong
I'm a problem
That'll never ever be solved
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I'm a monster, I'm a maven
I know this world is changing
Never gave in, never gave up
I'm the only thing I'm afraid of
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Young Jeezy]
I'm amazing (I'm amazing), yeah I'm all that (all that)
If I ain't on my grind then what you call that, what you call that
Victorious,
 
yeah we warriors
We make history, strive for victory (yeah)
Standing at my podium, I'm trying to watch my sodium
Die high blood pressure either let the feds catch ya (yeah)
I'm amazing born on a full moon
I was bred to get it in, no spoon
That's why I'm so goon, summertime no June
Big family small house, no room
They like "Oh God, why he go so hard
Look what he's been through, he deserves an applause"
[Outro]
So amazing, so amazing, so amazing
It's amazing, so amazing, so amazing, so amazing (x4)
It's amazing


[Verse 1]
It's amazing, I'm the reason
Everybody fired up this evening
I'm exhausted, barely breathing
Holding on to what I believe in
[Hook]
No matter what, you'll never take that from me
My reign is as far as your eyes can see
It's amazing, so amazing, so amazing, so amazing (x2)
It's amazing
[Verse 2]
I'm a monster, I'm a killer
I know I'm wrong
I'm a problem
That'll never ever be solved
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I'm a monster, I'm a maven
I know this world is changing
Never gave up, never gave in
I'm the only thing I'm afraid of
[Hook]
So amazing, so amazing, so amazing
No matter what, you’ll never take that from me
My reign is as far…
Bring it back down though
It's amazing, I'm the reason
Everybody fired up this evening
I'm exhausted, barely breathing
Holding on to what I believe in
No matter what, you'll never take that from me
Never take that from me
No take it back down, take it back, keep going
It feels like you're on trial sometimes
And in a relationship, you can also be on trial
And be convicted with no jury
And this song was sort of like that moment where someone tells you ain't, you ain’t - you gotta say I am - an emancipation, if you will
Cause you can't take that from me
My self-esteem
So whether it something in your own home, or a situation like mine
Where you're under the microscope of the media
Never let them take that from you
I never let them, let them take that from me
You have to be amazing sometimes
I and I know I do not always state popular opinion
Amazing, Michael Jackson, amazing
Michael Phelps, amazing
OJ Simpson, amazing
Is het not?!
What he did when he did what he did, was he not amazing though?
I think I saw in a movie - I get my quotes from movies cause I don't read
Or from like, go figure, real life or something
Like live real live, talk to real people, get information, ask people, questions
And it was something about, you either die a superhero or you live to become the villain
I'M CHILLIN'
*Kanye chicken noise*
I'm chillin'
So many times they try to make me out to be the villain
I don't understand what I did
I apologize for acting like a bitch at award-shows
It's an award-show, didn't kill anyone
But yet and still I apologize for my ungraciousness
I was a spoiled little Chicago-boy, who got all these awards as he came in the door and people clapped and sang his praises
And he soaked it all up and believed his own hype
To the point where he could not lose
And if anyone didn't pick him, they could not choose
As he swooves with the who's-who's and broke all the rules
And even lost his cool
Hey, nothing new
Now they don't like you, hey they don't like you
Look at what you've done boy, trying to be the number one boy
And I'm thirty-one years now and I've leaned from my mistakes
Just play pianos...
Super-hero music, pain
This hardcore, so hardcore
That's why I sing:
I'm a monster, I'm maven
I know this world is changing
Never gave up, never gave in
I'm the only thing I'm afraid of
No matter what, you'll never take that from me
My reign is as far as your eyes can see
It's amazing


[Click here for the soundtrack to this post]
I remember when i got my 2nd car in 2005. It was an '02 Honda Accord SE. Leather seats, 4 doors, but it had a wack stereo with a cassette deck. I was having none of this shit, so as soon as I got a $1000 christmas bonus at the newspaper i was working at, i went straight to the speaker shop. I blew my entire bonus on a PHAT speaker system and getting my windows tinted. I remember rolling out of the shop and the first CD i had in the booklet was 
Kanye's 
 (a burned copy of course). I popped it in, "Heard 'Em Say"
 started bumpin' and 
i was ROLLIN HARD!
 This beat was so money...Kanye had been a great producer from the get-go, but he was coming into his own as a rapper. Fast forward to 2013 and he's basically the biggest rapper on the planet. Forget the chill vibes of "Heard 'Em Say"...Adam Levine? Ha...hell no. Kanye's got wayy too much to get of his chest on 
 to fuck with Maroon 5. This is a guy on top of the world...literally. And looking at the world through his eyes is nothing short of fascinating

 is wayyyy more than rap. We see this the minute the album opens, on "On Sight" and Yeezy ain't fuckin around. He's got 
Daft Punk
 AND 
Benji B
 producing the track with him? The result is some HEAVY synth that's nothing short of cosmic. 
Think of the club in that new Tron movie where Daft Punk was playing.
 If you were at some club in the matrix or in outer space somewhere, this is the beat you'd be hearing. 'Ye intersperses a sick soul sample and just goes off on a tirade, highlighted by gems like:
Ok..I see where this is going. 
Right into another Daft Punk collabo on "Black Skinhead." A track filled with HUGE drum hits that he dropped a dark and often times terrifying interactive video for.
 This is not just some regular-ass album release. This is next-level shit. We see him just not giving a fuck by dropping perhaps the most disputed lyric of the year:
Can't tell you how many fan boys and girls were FURIOUS at this one.
 "It wasn't the Romans in that movie! It was the Spartans!" But man, Kanye delivers it with such emphasis. He doesn't stutter for a second and he's so wrapped up in the beat. It's like the brilliant thespian who skips a line and you don't even notice, you're just enamored with the performance. He got everyone talking with this slip-up, or was it?
Everything seemed so calculated with this album and it was genius stroke after genius stroke. 
The first taste we got of the record was the global premier of the "New Slaves" video. A cryptic map on his website showed the locations of this video projection in major cities around the world.
 I was in San Francisco at the time and trekked down to 2nd & Mission at 11pm with a buddy and a flask. This was some guerilla shit for sure. These surly dudes showed up with a full-size pickup truck and what looked like a 200 pound projector. The surly dudes pulled up the projector with all their weight to position it and they beamed Kanye up on a high rise in the financial district that was maybe 300 yards away. This was surreal. The video played three times in a row while the music blared on a single massive speaker. By the 3rd time, we were rappin' along. Sharing booze, dancing in the street. It was so dope. As it ended, i yelled out a scream "let's go to the next one!" and we trekked over to Union Square for the 1145 showing. THIS is what being a star is about these days. How you gonna top what the last guy did?! And there was nothing that felt contrived about it. You could feel Kanye's emotion on the Big Brother-like projection of his head against a building

In fact, this the quality that sets Kanye apart, nothing feels fake. If you've seen interviews with the guy, he has SO much emotion. He truly believes in everything he says. THIS is art. Dude can say shit like 
"I Am a God"
 and it ain't tongue in cheek at all. 
He knows the masses are hanging on his every word, just licking their chops waiting to derive meaning from it, waiting to break it down.
 THIS is the lens through which he looks at the world. He's the face on the side of the building and you either soak it all up and act like you belong there with every inch of your body, or you don't cease the spotlight and become just another singer. But don't think that the spotlight doesn't get to him. It pisses him off. The ravenous media attention and countless organizations calling for his head infuriate him and it makes his expression that much more real and defining

For all the anger, for all the lines like "Put my fist in her like a civil rights sign," there's beautiful prose and social commentary with the impeccable Nina Simone sampled on "Blood on the Leaves." 
He goes straight for the jugular with the provocative subject matter and puts difficult conversations at the forefront. "Blood on the Leaves" is a masterpiece. Do yourself a favor and read the annotations on Rap Genius, especially the words on the production of this song. There's no issue this man is not ready to bring up.
 And I'm just scratching the surface. I could write into the night on this album. 
We could sit here and talk about Kanye's ability to elevate a talent like Justin Vernon to the top of the indie rock world.
 We could re-hash his words in the countless interviews and rants, but there's no way i could do it as well as the users on Rap Genius already have done (in fact, to bring authenticity and the right frames of reference to this post, i've collaborated with Kanye's top scholar on RG to make many of the annotations you're reading right now.) The annotated 
 is some of the richest content on the entire site. Dissecting every stanza, every beat, every move of 
this
 album, for the monumental accomplishment that it is. 
Even Lou Reed thinks so. LOU FUCKING REED! Read his words,
 crumble your preconceived notion of Mr. West if you don't like him, if only for a moment, to look into what his music and his ART is made of. Cause it's unlike anything that's ever been done and there's much more to come....
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To listen to any of the albums on our countdown, 
check out our spotify playlist here
Peep the archives of all of the albums reviewed up to this point
#8 is due up tomorrow!


[Mike Myers]
: 
With the breach of three levees protecting New Orleans,
 
the landscape of the city has changed dramatically, tragically, and perhaps irreversibly. There is now over twenty-five feet of water where there was once city streets and thriving neighbourhoods.
[Kanye West]: 
I hate the way they portray us in the media.
 
If you see a black family, it says “they’re looting.” If you see a white family, it says “they’re looking for food.”
 And you know, 
it’s been five days
 because 
most of the people 
 black
 and even for me to complain about I would be a hypocrite because 
I’ve tried to turn away from the TV because it’s too hard to watch
. 
I’ve even been shopping before even giving a donation.
  So now I’m calling my business manager right now to see what’s… 
what is the biggest amount I can give
 and… and just to imagine if 
 was… if I was down there and those are… those are my people down there. 
So anybody out there that wants to do anything that we can help
. 
With… with the setup, the way America is set up to help the…uh the uh, the poor, the… the black people, the uh… the less well-off as slow as possible.
 I mean, this is, 
Red Cross is doing everything they can.
 We… 
we already realize a lot of the people that could help are at war, right now
, fighting another way, and they’ve… 
they’ve given them permission to go down and shoot us.
[Mike Myers]: And subtle and but in even many ways more profoundly devastating is the 
lasting damage to the survivors’ will to rebuild and remain in the area
. The destruction of the spirit of the people of Southern Louisiana and Mississippi may end up being the 
most tragic loss of all
.
[Kanye West]: 
George Bush doesn’t care about black people.


[Kanye West]
This another number one champion sound
Yeah, Estelle we about to get down
Who the hottest in the world right now?
Just touched down in London town
Bet they give me a pound
Tell them put the money in my hand right now
Tell the promoter we need more seats
We just sold out all the floor seats
[Hook 1]
Take me on a trip I'd like to go some day
Take me to New York, I'd love to see LA
I really want to come kick it with you
You'll be my American Boy
[Estelle]
He said, Hey sister
It's really, really nice to meet you
I just met this 5-foot-7 guy who's just my type
Like the way he's speaking, his confidence is peaking
Don't like his baggy jeans but I might like
 
what's underneath them
And no I ain't been to MIA
I heard that Cali never rains
 and 
New York wide awake
First let's see the West End
, 
I'll show you to my bredrin
I'm liking this American boy, American boy
[Hook 1]
[Estelle]
Can we get away this weekend?
 
take me to Broadway
Let's go shopping
 
baby then we'll go to a Café
Let's go on the subway, take me to your hood
I never been to Brooklyn and I'd like to see what's good
Dressed in all your fancy clothes
Sneaker's looking fresh to death, I'm loving those Shell Toes
Walking that walk, talk that slick talk
I'm liking this American boy, American boy
[Hook 1]
[Kanye West]
Who killing them in the UK, everybody going to say "you, K"
Reluctantly, because most of this press don't fuck wit me
Estelle once said to me, "Cool down, down. Don't act a fool now, now"
I always act a fool oww, oww, ain't nothing new now, now
He crazy, I know what you thinking
Ribena I know what you're drinking
Rap singer, chain blinger
Holler at the next chick soon as you're blinking
What's your persona about this Americana rhymer?
Am I shallow cuz all my clothes designer?
Dressed smart like a London bloke, before he speak his suit bespoke
And you thought he was cute before, look at this pea coat, tell me he's broke
And I know you ain't into all that, I heard your lyrics I feel your spirit
But I still talk that CA-A-ASH cause a lot wags want to hear it
And I'm feeling like Mike at his Baddest
Like The Pips at their gladdest
And I know they love it
So to hell with all that 
rubbish
[Estelle]
Would you be my love, my love (could you be mine)
Would you be my love, my love (could you be mine)
Would you be my love, my love
Would you be my American boy, American boy
[Hook 2]
Take me on a trip, I'd like to go some day
Take me to Chicago,
 San Francisco bay
I really want to come kick it with you
You'll be my American boy, American boy
[Hook 1]


Disick: Hey, do you like Kanye West?
Cheban: Yeah, he's okay, I guess
D: Well, the early work was a little too 
 for me in my taste,
 
but when 
 came out in 2010, I think he really came into his own, both musically and lyrically
D:
 
Kanye's been compared to Jesus,
 
Hitler,
 
Walt Disney,
 
and even Steve Jobs
C: Hey Disick
D: Yes Jonathan?
C: 
Why do you have copies of Billboard magazine all over the place? Do you have a little dog - a little chow or something? *laughs*
D: No, Jonathan!
C: Is that a raincoat?
D: Yes, it is! Now, Kanye's decided to release this, 
, 
his most exciting record so far.
 
It should be obvious by now that "New Slaves" is the undisputed masterpiece of 
.
 
A song so catchy, most people won't even remember the lyrics!
 
But they should.
 And then there's the song "I Am a God". The title practically speaks for itself, but of course the insecurities of the mainstream music press will never understand its true meaning because it's about me! Hey Jonathan!
D: Try getting the 
 album now motherfucker!


Yeah
It's (a million)
[Hook]
I freestyle battle niggas for (a million)
How many niggas bit the soul, bout (a million)
How many hoes did I bone, bout (a million)
Uh-uh, uh-uh, it's (a million), uh-uh
There's (a million) ways to die, choose one
(A million)
[Verse One]
Lot of people askin' 'bout the money I made,
 
even Just Blaze
How are they for real, is them niggas really paid?
Rappers I met, or, dealt with direct
Is it true he won't send a beat tape until he get a check?
What's the position you hold?
Could you really match the 
Neptunes
, 
check
By check if "H to the Izzo" is the only single that went gold?
If Roc-a-fella shit fold
And you move back to the 'Go
Is it back to ghost producer for D. Dot on the low?
For the millionth time askin' me
Questions like Toni Braxton,
 
harassing me
Like you don't care about my son's feelings?
Can I get a minute you wack bitch?
I ain't gotta jack shit
You heard "Takeover", who running this rap shit?
Ugh
Fake tits
Shut up and make hits
Can't we all just get along
, 
spread love like Take 6
What, you doin' beats in LA for Eminem and Dr. Dre?
Them niggas sold ten mill I'm trying to get paid
We do this shit for entertainment
Bring guns to the arraignment
While the judge in the chamber
Let one up out the chamber BLAOW!
[Hook]
How many years did I wait, about (a million)
How many niggas tryin' hate, about (a million)
But when a nigga count his cake, it's bout (a million)
[Verse Two]
'04, College Dropout, I make the game different
I don't know what the hell y'all niggas been sniffin'
'Ye still flicking,
 
hoes is my addiction
Five days out the week, you'll find me in the kitchen
Smashing the game, nigga, unlike you
Cause these beats change the game and the hook's right too
I'm a crook like you
Cats back in the Chi was buying tracks for dirt cheap
Man, what could I do?
Knowing I supposed to style
I'm the fly boy poster child
'Bout to be on Oprah now
It's ironic and whatnot
How I put no ice on the Bulgari watch
Just to make it hot
Now you see me on stages
My hit resumes is two pages
For them niggas who played us
Feet just raises
Booming like Master Aces
"Stand Up", number one, and there's more to come
All I got for hoes is hard dick and bubble gum
While y'all brick like 
Fred, Barney Rubble
 and them
Chi-town in this bitch, what's fucking with them?
Not a damn thing, nigga, we doing our damn thing
BLAOW!
(A million)


[Verse 1: Common]
I spent my day so, first I pray yo
Then I lay low, looking for the halo
Or more yayo, my little angel
Reminded me to stay playful
Faithful walks I take in the woods
Thinking whats good, things that I can change I should
Things I can't, need to be understood
Th-this is the bliss, I used to drift from the hood
For a second at least, I'm resurrecting the peace
Pipes that Indians used to light, we called it Chief, right?
Stepping on the leafs right, to reach heights
Th-th-th-that I never seen, it's so so evergreen
Some use it for medicine, or to write better things
I was in Amsterdam man, bike pedalling
To the nature spot to taste the flavours they got
My eyes drop, I like it a lot
Yeah, my angel
[Hook]
I wanna turn up the sound and spread my wings because I'm riding with my (Angel)
Going through the city of the Chi make me feel like I'm in the city of (Angels)
Oooh I wanna fly, fly away with my (Angel)
She takes me high, she will always be my (Angel)
[Verse 2: Game]
Th-th-the way that I rhyme, blow nigga's mind
Like the first time you heard Mary J and you were standing in line
To purchase tickets to see her blow like Chicago wind
And I'm ridin with Common looking for Chicago Zen
And like Chicago winds, I was once a Street Disciple
Rockin every Jordan shoe, Nike put out by Michael
That made me feel like I could fly,
 
sometimes I wanted to die
Prolly cause the angel dust was fuckin with my third eye
So I start hip-hop and I understand why
 
Common used to love her
She got me open so I even had to fuck her
But I used the rubber, cause she was married to Rakim
So I bought me a gold chain, pretendin' that I was him
So I can get close to the girl I loved the most
But she left Cali and went on tour with Ne-Yo and Ghost
Big gave her one more chance, and she took Big down
I should've knew it, Shock G and Pac told me "She get around", an angel
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Game]
Fly away, fly away
My love for her is not about jewelry and cars
I love her cause she love me, just for who I are
Who I is, who I am, resembles the rims on the Lam'
I shine like Shyne
 
when Barrington Levy was sayin, "Didilly whoooa!"
I got love for the streets, peace to New York and every hood in the East
Before I was duckin' cops, gunshots,
 
I used to be an L.A. Dodger, now I'm a (Angel)
From the city of lost souls,
 
Impalas and polished gold
Between the car, and the rims, we got a lot of chrome
Your hood not alone, they knockin, we not at home
And when they bust in,
 
we not Caesar, but got it wrong
Cause they try to wire phones, I'm talking Verizon phones
The ones they put wires on, they got us on tap
But I put wires on, my Bentley in fact
I spit it through the wires on a Kanye track
[Hook]
[Outro: Common]
Yeah, it's The Game and Common
Spread your wings, follow your dreams
Things will be so serene, L.A. and the Chi is a team
Yeah, angel supreme
Yeah, keep on
Yeah, it's for the world boy, we do it forever, yeah


[Produced by Darhyl Camper & Kanye West]
[John Legend]
If I could, I'd give you the world
Wrap it all around you
Won't be satisfied with just a piece of this heart
My angel, oh angel
You're my angel, oh angel
[Stacy Barthe]
Oh, dreams are dreams
Some dreams come true
I found a real dream, baby when I found you
You're so strong but tender too
You're my angel


[Snoop Dogg]
A pool party at the church
G'd up and others barbequeing
Ain't no telling what your daddy and your momma doing
Chewing on these baby-backs popping bottles with these macks
Everybody swimming, backyard full of women
I'm entertaining folks
Gave the lil' homie twenty dollars just to shine my hundred spokes
Coke with the Hennesey tends to be the remedy
Family and friends to me
Everyone pretends to be kin to me
I can't wait until the Fourth of July
To pop some fireworks with my kids
And fly some kites high in the sky
See, it's the family reunion
And down at the church house, they giving up the annual communion
It seems we made it to another summer
Yeah we came and come up
213 is more than friends
Yeah, we like blood brothers
Riding this 'til the wheels fall off
Can you dig that?
We got this summertime anthem for y'all
We did that
[Hook - Latoiya Williams]
We made it through winter
We made it through fall
We made it through the spring time
Tough times and all
It's good to see
I love the summer
I'm riding with the top down
Let the wind blow
Chillin' with my love
Partying fo' sho'
It feels good to see
I love the summer
Everybody if you with me sing
[
Nate Dogg
]
We got the game on lock
On the paper chase, can't stop
On a roll, still hot
Gotta be top notch
I like the girls 'cuz they hot
Plus I know what they want
They want the game that we got
Hold up baby girl I think not
I like the nasty girls from around the way
Hoppin' in my gray drop-top Mercedes
Shouts go out to my sexy ladies
Just in case your man is hating
Tell your boy he better chill (Summertime)
Tell your boy he better chill (Summertime)
[Hook]
[
Warren G
]
I'm addicted to the sunshine the way it make these women dress
Tank tops, flip flops, make this nigga love the west
Different spots, even though different, it's still crackin'
In Jamaica, Queens I sit back, live and collect the cabbage
It's an affair that every state can relate to
And if you do what I do, then go on and follow suit
From Chi-Town to Diego, all the way back to NY
Stay fly, and never miss a piece of sunshine
When I'm at the church I barbeque for my kinfolk
Watch lil' Elijah and lil' Warren run the football
Got weed, got drink, but most of all the spirit
And it's a blessin' that the world wanna hear our music
The summer is an inspiration as much as the fast
And to my my nigga Snoopdewoop, I love you fam'
[Snoop Dogg]
Riding this 'til the wheels fall off
Can you dig that?
We got this summertime anthem for y'all
We did that
[Hook]
[Snoop Dogg]
Yeah, another summer
Kanye West good looking on the beat, nephew
213 reminding y'all put your guns down
Well spent summertime, let's enjoy ourselves
We just wanna celebrate
You know what I'm talking about?
It's too hot for all that
Yeah 213
Moving mountains y'all haha
All the time, yeah


[Hook: Tony Williams]
It don't really matter what you do
There'll never be another you
They ain't never been up in your shoes
There'll never be another you
It don't really matter what you do
There'll never be another you
Baby you ain't got nothing to prove
There'll never be another you
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Aye...B, C, D, E, F
We picking up right where we left...
Off, and I took a recess
When I get back you gon' take that...
Off, in the mirror like hey me, stay me
I make money, money don’t make me
Hey honey, what do you take me...
For, don’t look at me like I’m crazy
Don’t ever think that'd phase me
You ain’t finna do nothing, you ain’t crazy
You ain’t built like, that
Hey baby what it feel like, ahhh
Just forget I said it, screw it
It don’t really matter what you do when you do it
Tony Williams in this bitch, who you is
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Tony Williams]
You can go, you can come
You can walk, you can run
Do whatever you want: just have fun
Dictatorships not for my people
What good is love if we can't be equal
What good if light if it does not shine?
Go on and get yours cause I'm gonna get mine
How do you get old if you never been new?
I'm telling you the truth baby!
[Hook]
[Bridge: Tony Williams]
Here’s another day in the life of a champion, mayne
I’m still here, I’m ashamed but I might
For the wrong for the right
Its a dangerous sight
I’m going in
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I’m feeling like Stevie right now, you know…
I had the strangest feeling lately
The nigga's so fake I'm off it
And every time they flake like frosted
I just make my profit
And get a girl who barely bra fit
Aw shit! He back on his feet like carpet
He was just playing possum
Playing like I wasn't awesome?
Yeah I got some jokes, don't I?
Ha ha ha, laugh it up
And they'll be wack
And we'll be the last ones cracking up
Matter fact, because you nigga wanna doubt me?
Let's see how it feel without me
Taking off on this rocket, Yao Ming
[Hook]


[Hook: Tony Williams]
It don't really matter what you do
There'll never be another you
They ain't never been up in your shoes
There'll never be another you
It don't really matter what you do
There'll never be another you
Baby you ain't got nothing to prove
There'll never be another you
[Verse 1: King Chip]
Thanks for having me Tony, you know
She got money from her last two exes
No kids, new Jag, new Lexus
And cook a bad ass breakfast
Just incredible, how the sex is
So I leave her but then I come right back
She be catchin' attitude and I don't like that
Wanna talk that shit, I'mma strike back
Only for the makeup sex and the night cap
They got a bed on the beach and
My thing got beef with your coochie
Got money, still sneak in the movie
Love the adventure and when you do me
I heard last man, soft ass friend like macho man
Lil' tight ass shirt on, let's just call him not your man
I'm just saying
[Hook: Tony Williams]
[Verse 2: Freddie Gibbs]
F.G., all these, freak bitches wanna sex me
But due to the fact I'm a mac with a mothafuckin' sack
Man a bitch can't stress me
I'm with Alicia, Lauren, and Leslie
Miami rooftop Cabana
Heard they fucked my crew from Atlanta
Now I'm tryna hit it so pardon my manners
I was born with it so pardon this pimpin'
Can't learn nothin' talkin', bitch listen
Need a thick rare thing up in my bed frame
You look like you fit that description
Get up in the GT and get missin'
Push button start, the keyless ignition
Whole damn thing, it cost me 240
'Fore I left the lot I slapped it on Forgi’s, uh
And it don't really matter what you do
Cause I don't know another chick like you
From the back to the front to the side
Ain't another nigga doin' it like I do
Smoked out, I'm toasted
Fucked the bitch and made her lose focus
Off another dose of this dope dick
Tell all your friends, girl, promote this it's Gibbs
[Hook]
[Verse 3: King Chip]
You know a nigga need that one thing
She want a nigga that's stunting
Every time she pitch, I grand slam
Say her man be bunting
Well tonight, we going hunting
She like women like I do
Damn, well tonight we can try two
Damn, where the fuck a nigga find you?
You know a nigga mentally fucked up
Prolly on the bud, walk up in the club, get all the love
All because a nigga fucks with Cud
And even Kanye sees me, he says what's up
Tony I think I found the one
But she can't talk, her man is home
I told her save my name as Shaft Long in her damn phone
[Hook]
[Bridge: Tony Williams]
Here’s another day in the life of a champion, knight
Do I do some fight, I’m ashamed but I might
Whether wrong, wheather right
Its a dangerous sight
Are we going in
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
I’m feeling like Stevie right now, you know…
I had the strangest feeling lately
The nigga's so fake I'm off it
And every time they flake like frosted
I just make my profit
And get a girl who barely bra fit
Aw shit! He back on his feet like carpet
He was just playing possum
Playing like I wasn't awesome?
Yeah I got some jokes, don't I?
Ha ha ha, laugh it up
And they'll be wack
And we'll be the last ones cracking up
Matter fact, because you nigga wanna doubt me?
Let's see how it feel without me
Taking off on this rocket, Yao Ming
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Mr. Hudson]
Anyone but him
I rather he, you have the whole football team
Then have to watch his filthy lips on your skin
Anyone but him
Anyone but him
With school boy fists, we can take this outside
But knowing my luck, that fuck would win
Anyone but him
[Hook]
Who's gonna take you home
Who's gonna take you home
Who's gonna take you home
If it isn't me
If it isn't me
[Verse 2: Mr. Hudson]
Anyone but him
My blood boils as my eyes turn green
Is this the best of the best of the scene
Anyone but him
Anyone but him
With school boy fists, we can take this outside
But knowing my luck, that fuck would win
Anyone but him
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Mr. Hudson]
Anyone but him
Look past the leather, and the dash, and the rims
And you'll see his whole hustle wears thin
Anyone but him
Anyone but him
He's gonna take what you can't take back
Then he's gone out the door on a whim
Anyone but him
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
Now once she go black, she ain't never coming back
I'm sorry Mr. H, I thought you already knew that
You will see her on a black street like Chauncey
I'm a bad boy like Sean C
Rock a fella like Shawn C
Keep them Apes with me like Don C
Like Jay keep Beyonce
I'm just talking nonsense, so nonchalantly
See my Mark like Ronsy
Pop my collars like Fonzy
Paparazzi is on me
I see your girl want me, I'm filling up her glass
Feeling on her ass, feeling so upper class
And your boy so fresh
I might even flash cash
So at the end of the night, you ain't even gotta ask
[Hook]
[Outro]
If it isn't me
Who's gonna take you home
If it isn't me
Who's gonna take you home
If it isn't me
If it isn't me
Who's gonna take you home
If it isn't me
Who's gonna take you home
If it isn't me
Who's gonna take you home
If it isn't me
If it isn't me
If it isn't me


[Kanye West]
I mean wow. You know? Man
Lookin' out my loft windows man my dreams became true
Lookin' at the mirror, wondering if it's the same dude
Lookin' at my closet wondering if it's all about clothes
Look right next to me, wondering if it's all about
Hop in the car and asked the OnStar where this life goes
And I drive so fast I blur the light post
They say 
Drive Slow
, I say "I know"
Then errrr, away I go
And the way I flew
In this year or two
I know this is what God put me here to do
But in this excitement
You just might miss
A shorty with a demo like "Hey, you might like this"
And see
He
Remind me of me
Just a year ago
Now he
Tellin' me
I'm his her-ro-oh
I took his CD and asked him what he's lookin' for
He said, "Man, I don't know. Maybe a miracle"
[Patti Labelle]
Time, they say (true story, [kanye west])
There ain't no way
Your dreams are gone see the light of day
Don't believe
That you can't achieve
Whatever you're after
You can't be swayed
By the simple minds
That wanna hold you down
And in his time
When you
Get with
We'll be not far behind
[Hook: Patti Labelle]
If you listen to the sermons
And ask the Lord for guidance
You will see the many blessings (blessings you have received)
When you give Him all the glory (glory)
Gonna talk to, don't ignore thee (ignore thee)
Listen to all the stories
You can do anything
[Consequence]
I got an angel on my shoulder and I know he been warning me
To stay out the clubs where the police and warrants be
Cause that will lead to prison where the inmates and wardens be
But a lot of times we follow them when we know we ought to leave
And stay up in the party when we know that we ought to leave
But the women be callin' me
The liquor be callin' me
And what's the sense in Cons tippin' strippers named Diamond?
If he gonna be 
conflicted no different than diamonds
And the Lord is the only one that he can confide in
So I don't know how you think that you could deny Him
I open up the Book and the message is clear
But I still be in the hood so the pressure is there
To grab at that fast money just to get out of Queens
To bag up the work that they give out to fiends
But that ain't gonna work if I say what I mean
Cause at the end of the day I'm trying to
 
Get Out My Dreams


[Verse 1]
There must be more good women than men percentage wise
So her chance of having a husband just minimized
That's why a lot of girls claim they ain't into guys
And mess with other girls part time to improvise
I knew she wasn’t bi
No I seen it in her eyes
But I'm like any other guy trying to get in her thighs
She telling me about how black people should enterprise
And I'm like, if you don't get your ass in this ride from Enterprise
That I rented yesterday and gotta have in by 5
With the gas fully filled up like I didn't drive
Told her I had a girl, nah fuck it I didn't lie
Told her this rap game is alright. I'm just getting by
She had a lil' weed and would get a lil' high
And I'm looking in her eyes and I'm loving her vibe
Told me back in 95' she fell in love with the Tribe
Boo, back in 92', I was just like you
Please don't be confused by the ice and jewels
I'm like any other nigga, buy ice to stay cool
Like any other nigga that claim they hate school
And think yeah Free's banging but she's no Rachel
[Hook]
We ball 'til we fall
Hit the mall
After we
Hit don't call
We fill your lives
With nothing but lies
And I would like to
Apologize
But you can't stand right here
And tell me everything is going to be alright
Cause until the day a real man stands up
I'm going to have to improvise
[Verse 2]
Was it something I did wrong?
Yeah I know I'm wrong
She's at home alone and I'm always gone
Hate it when she mad but more when she passive
Now she on the internet looking for classes
Out of state though
, 
man that hurt, yo
But I got work though, and I'm at work, yo
And she don't call a lot
And when she do she pouring out her heart
You never listen to me then the call drop... hmmm
And I promised her everything
Told her when I get a deal I'll get her a wedding ring
But when I got my deal I was back in the ring
Fighting my urges, strip club splurges
Never had money so I felt like a virgin
And I'm trying to break the bank's cherry
Tryin' to see can I afford Canaries
With a Ferrari and a dinner date with Halle Berry
Went from fifty g's to fifteen hundred in a week
No I'm trying to call..one ring...two rings...seven rings...eight rings
Her mother picked up the phone
Like she in school and she don't stay here no more
I guess there's more good women than men percentage wise
So her chance of having a husband just minimize
I guess that's why she says she ain't into guys
And focus on school full-time to improvise
[Hook]
No no, you can't stand right here
And tell me everything is gonna be alright
Cause until that real man stands up
I'm going to have to improvise


Martin Lawrence(speaks while choruses are sang):"look here, lemme tell you something, ya know. I'm tired a arguin im tryna share this wit chu,ok? I'm tryna giv this to yooou, ya know what im sayin? To Yooou, you know? This..if you don't, y-you can't get wit the indoor pool, the outdoor pool, or lil music studio thing, the little bowlin thang, ya know what im sayin? Hm, this is yours. But chu don't like that, then fiiine man. You can leave. You can allllways leave. I'm not holdin you here"
Chorus)
We can't even sit & talk
Witout chu arguin
Girl you must be outta your mind
You're the one who started it
(Gangsta, ugh!)
1st Verse:
I gotta girl at home
But she don't cook
I have my condoms in the store cause she won't look
And she neva-eva go to the grocery sto
So I figure it's safe to pull a grocery-ho
She was buyin Alize out the liquor aisle
She said, 'i hope its not too ghetto'
Rock-Dawg, 
Gold Force
, 
Baggy style
I kept her number on file
For my girl be actin 
wyld
Like last week, I told her take me to the mall
But she don't drive
My otha girl picked me up at 3:05
She got a brand new car, sixteen
Now the car only 1 yrs old, oh
Man, but the body look grown, "whooa!"
Before I catch a case I betta take my ass home
Where the problems is
Arguments be daily like
Carson is
Martin again:
Fuck you. Fuck yooou. I on't give a fuck whatchu have. This little indoor-indoor, outdoor pool, little bowlin alley. Material buuullshit. It don't mean shit. It don't make what's in the muthafuckin heart"
(Chorus)
We can't even sit & talk
Witout chu arguin
Girl you must be outta your mind
You're the one who started it
(I'm gangsta, ugh-ugh)
2nd Verse:
Hol' up, wait a second man
That's that thrift sto info
That's sauce again
Why don't chu talk to the mouth a the horses
Bout my porshes?
Condo's in front a the golf courses
Instead you stay up
Count every second like a fake rolley
I'm real, so you know I move real slowly
The way this relationship should go if you know me
I ain't call you
You wanna know why? I mean you know why
How on the low I push jet-skee's so I
Couldn't return them pages, on my motorolla
Nextel, my cell it don't work down there
And what happened in cancun, stay down there
What's happenin here, made me wish I stayed down there
Take a seat. Why you always makin a beef?
You know these walls too thin in this apart-a-ment
Now everybody hearin our arguments
What the problem is?!?!?
Martin again: (audience laughs & applauds) "Why you actin like this? But letchu have some fly shit. Some nice beautiful shit. (Gangsta) They act like they gon leave yoou. You can tell em look here, Ya know. I'm tired a arguin"
(Chorus)
We can't even sit & talk
Witout chu arguin
Girl you must be outta your mind
You're the one who started it
(I'm gangsta, ugh-ugh)
Last Verse:
Man boo you know what I do
So don't trip when I come home after two
Or three or four
I ain't messin wit them girls no more...this week
The benz coup is so sweet
When I roll down the street
Tears roll down her cheeks
She said, 'you must love that car more than me'
A nigga I was wit chu before the cheese
So you need to work on your priorities
If she went wit 'Fabulous'
I bet that she'd be a:
AR-GU-IN-G,
 Please
I'm not actin like this cause I'm gettin spins on
WU-KR, Cin-ci-nat-ti
You think I get my voice so deep
Like WU-KR, cin-ci-nat-ti
That's how much of a fuck I give
You seen cribs? That's how the fuck I live
As far as this...
(Chorus)
We can't even sit & talk
Witout chu arguin
Girl you must be outta your mind
You're the one who started it


[Hook]
"Baby, don't let me suffer, cause another won't do
Baby, don't let me suffer, cause another won't do"
[Verse One]
The game's on, Hot Karl dominates y'all ears
I'm making suckas disappear like Amil's career (oh)
I'm just joking but you having trouble coping
Cause you beating me is like 
Def Leppard's drummer jump-roping
 (not happening)
Cause me and Kanye made this real picante
And grande, while you suckas act Armand Assante (rrr)
Suburban strangler, angled to rip a stranger
With lyrics so hard I even make Mystikal say "danger"
And right here's an MC that you should fear
Underground like snuff films,
 
throwing 'bows like Laimbeer
 (aha)
Crushing the rest 'til there ain't nobody left
And if I don't go double platinum then I'm blaming Wyclef (ohh)
So rhyme for rhyme, line for line let's get it done
None other will do when my crew's out there having fun
Punchlines like landmines, 
Bensonhurst to Anaheim
I'm dropping dimes
 while y'all suckas silent like pantomimes
What
[Hook]
Don't let me
Run off at the mouth
[Verse Two]
I'm always into something, got everybody running
It's my year, dawg, warn Tyrese that I'm coming (I'm coming!)
Fucking up the scene, take away the self-esteem
The Jewish Jay-Z,
 call me William Hollastein (Hova!)
I keep attacking and send your crew packing
Nobody's feeling you, like Kobe Bryant rapping (ouch)
So keep on yapping, it's obvious you hate me
Real racy, expose myself like I was K-Ci (hahaha)
Now I'm bringing new views to the table
Able to bring in more kids than Jermaine Dupri's label (so def)
Take you out and watch you blow come to an end
Able to go three the hard way without Puffy's friends (let's did it)
Changed the game before one song was finished
Spent so much cash, made Farmclub go out of business (ching!)
You ain't touching the Baldwins at all
It's a family dawg, drink babies and suck balls
Like what
[Hook]
Don't let me
Run off at the mouth
[Verse Three]
Can't wait until I'm platinum and drowning in wealth
So I can talk about my cash and sound like everyone else (sure)
Wrecking this, more infectious than asbestos
Making heads bob up and down like motherfucking Pez dispensers (aww yeah)
I'll take your wig and part it in the middle
Cause any one of ya mizzles ain't fucking with Hot Kizzle (nope)
And that's for shizzle, obvious and of course
Dangerous like sporting ice to the next Source Awards (hahaha)
The shit I kick is on a unique level
And we call it rebel when we got some fights that we want settled
Beatin' em 'til they can't hear like Halle Berry
You try hard but still fuck up, like Darryl Strawberry (ooh)
Rip you apart, so baby don't start
Driving down Mulholland in a Hummer go-kart (rrrt)
This is lyric shit, tough shit, never soft
Hot Karl dot com, log on, fuck off
Fuck off
[Hook]
Don't let me
Run off at the mouth
Hot Karl
Ripping up some lyric shit for you
That is, in case you had any questions about the content
Yo
Hot Karl
Kanye West
Uh
Right up in your grill like that


[Hook]
Every day a star is born (And you say New York City!)
Clap for em, clap for em, clap for em
Every day a star is born
Clap for em, clap for em, clap for em
Hey!
[Verse 1 - Jay-Z]
I seen Mase do it, I seen Ye do it
X came through, caught lighter fluid
Still I came through it
Clap for em
But I’m the blueprint
I’m like the map for em
I dropped another classic
Made Puff pass it
Nobody could touch Puff back when Puff had it
Wayne scorching, I'll applaud him
If he keep going, pass the torch to him
50 came through like hurricanes do
I thought I'd finish his ass at Summer Jam too
I had the Illmatic on bootleg
The shit was so ahead, thought we was all dead
Wayne did A Milli, 50 did a milli
Ye too,
 
but what Em did was silly
The white boy blossomed after Dre endorsed him
His flow on Renegade, fucking awesome
Applaud him
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Jay-Z]
Snoop dogged it,
 
Nelly came down
The Face Mob, kept it ghetto for the H town
Luda moved digits after he moved bitches
Drake’s up next, see what he do with it
Rule had a run, couple movie parts
T.I. literally wanted to shoot up the charts
What up Jeezy, what it do
Y’all remind me of us in early '92
Outkast landed,
 
3 thou was ill
Like a male version of Lauryn Hill
Mobb Deep shook it
 
but Prodigy took it a lil' too far
Can’t fuck with Brooklyn
Wu-Tang gangbanged it,
 
Meth ate
Rae took on the date
 
with the Purple Tape
Passed on to Ason
 
and then Ghostface
They had a hell of a run
Standing ovate, ayyy
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Jay-Z]
And I am one of one
Can’t you see just how long my run
My reign Lulu's son shine
Been a star since I was back in one time
One time give it up for him
December 4th a star was born
Clap for him
He went from moving that corner
To this corner office is so enormous
Hey, Pres Carter
Watch them get they Monica on all day
Hey
Got so many different monikers but only 1 Jay
They come, they go
Some real, 
some faux
Some friends, some hoes
But no, I goes nowhere, this Hov
[Hook]
[Verse 4 - J. Cole]
And could I be a star
Does fame in this game have to change who you are?
Or could I be the same one who came from a far away life
Just to make it in these Broadway lights?
Now shining in the broad day light, go figure
A slow transition from a little broke nigga from the Ville
Got a deal, a real life saver
Dreams of being behind the wheel like Jada
I chill now...cop a little ice later
Cole you got the glow like a
 
lil' lightsaber
So clap for him,
 
then applaud Hov
He gave him a platform
Flow so sick thought he wrote the rap for him
No sir
The flow's cold as a shoulder
Of gold digging hoes when a broke nigga approaches
Told ya I’m focused man
I’ll let you motherfuckers soak it in


[Produced by Dave Tozer, Kanye West & Mark Williams]
[Hook]
Our love's an asylum
Where you and I go
Our love's an asylum
Where we go, go, go, go crazy
[Verse 1]
In a state of madness
Wrapped up in your magic
Ecstatic, an addict
Oh we've landed
On another planet
And it feels like home here
We'll never go back there
Cause we're crazy
I'll go crazy with you
You're so crazy
I'll go crazy with you
[Hook] x2
[Verse 2]
Can't nobody save me
I'll go down with you, baby
I'll take you, you'll take me
Crazy - I'll do crazy with you
Let's go crazy, I'll go crazy with you
[Hook]


[Produced by Shawty Redd]
[Intro: Young Jeezy]
In the midst of negativity
A positive sight can be blurred
And the visions that we thought were good
Seems to let evil occur
While still possessing our human form
We live life searching for greatness since the day we was born
And as we bow our heads at night, rich, wealthy
Or poor with dislike, we pray, asking for
Forgiveness for our sinful ways
With mind, body, spirit and faith, we pray amen
[Kanye West]
You like that don’t you? I wrote it myself by the way
And I don’t mean to be selfish
But I picture myself getting paid
And you might catch pneumonia
Cause I'm colder than a elf on a sleigh
Me and Pusha back on it
Now everybody help us pray
Lord forgive my sins & all my friends
Dollars make sense, I’m trying to get paid
[Pusha T]
Try to get saved (too late!)
Time to get paid
Got a gun and a stocking mask
Niggas thought I was trying to get waves
I’mma let all ya’ll niggas pray for it
My young niggas knocking off a K for it
Sold my soul on the back-end
Only fucking way I’mma pay for it
Front that shit, you put a flame on
My niggas locked in a cage for
They keep telling me to go hard
#1 spot you was made for
I made more
Front of the grill, got a racehorse
California Crayola red
Glow In The Dark like a Ye tour
Fuck niggas stepping in my lane for
Not knowing that it’s a land mine
Soon as a nigga feels a cool breeze
Throw the top up like a gang sign
Red or blue? Crip or Blood?
Solitaires, diamond studs like chandeliers I’mma flood
Black Jesus piece like it’s dipped in mud
Fashion God’s, notice mine
Rollerball spikes I’m Pokemon
Paris shit, Louboutin
Under bright lights where do you belong
[Hook]
Please Lord, yeah, it’s gettin realer everyday
Niggas killin’, niggas starving, niggas they can’t find no Yay
See at first they roll around and their bills they cannot pay
So some be trappin' and some be dying, bow heads and let us pray
Amen
[Kanye West]
Amen, how many people do you know hatin’?
On your downfall sitting their waitin’
When you shine, don't know what they gonna say then
Everything I do now stadiums
Tell me what they really gon’ say to him
And I’m headed straight to the ATM
Finna go HAM, nigga, finna go in
Nigga you get it when pigs fly
When Yeezy fake,
 
Devil’s pie
Piece of cake,
 
Kit-Kat
I need a break, 
God’s child
Jesus Christ,
 
Club like a broken neck
I need the ice,
 
I need the lights
In Egypt they fightin’ for freedom
Cop pull you over no reason, beat him
[Hook]
[Young Jeezy]
I got them units packed in
That black van like the A-Team
Even seen them come 2-tone like a saleen
Saleen, Yeah that’s a Mustang
Break ‘em down in the night, thats what I call hustling
They say they want that dumb shit, well this is ignorant
Condo on the timepiece, now thats ignorant
Young, you a fool, I coulda bought some real estate
Instead I bought a half a block, I tried to sew up half the streets
I’m on, 75-75, going for the 25
Guess who’s pickin’ up a trey
Just an ordinary day with extraodinary pay
Extraordinary risk
Can’t even explain, got an extraordinary wrist
I talk it cause I lived it man, this shit ain't really nothin' to me
Tell ya like Sosa told Tony, “Don't you fuck with me”
[Hook]


[Intro: Kanye West and Ghostface Killah]
It's your boy Ne-Yo, we gonna do it like this
The Roc is in the building, yeah
It's the remix yo
Kanye is in the building
Yo, the monster don is in the building, we in here
Kanye West is in the building
Ghostface
Your boy getting fat now
I got the fat stomach and laid up, eating good now
Other girl all stressed out, my girl got the fat ass
Shorty mad, pulling her hair out
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
Come through the block, in the brand new Benz
Knowing that me and that nigga ain't friends
Yeah, what I did was wack
But you don't get a nigga back like that
Bouncing around, when I'm up in these streets
Knowing that me and that nigga got beef
Yeah, what I did was wack
But you don't get a nigga back like that, no
[Kanye West]
I'm high powered
Put Eva Mendes to sleep
Yo pardon, that bitch been on my mind all week
But back to you, MAC gloss chick, you're way fit
How you have everything in this world and waste it
Prince told me it'll be ok
I'm so sick like Ne-Yo say
I'm laid back, like neo-soul
I holla back at this Creole ho
She from the N.O., but she never told me "N-O" so
We at the spot to chill, where the food get grilled
She ordered the Kobe beef like Shaquille O'Neal
Second I walked in, the whole room got still
I don't know how to put this, but I'm kind of a big deal
And she conceited, she got a reason
She got her hair did, she got her weave in
And I'mma sweat that out by the evening
You, I don't sweat that now, I got a new
[Hook]
[Ghostface Killah]
Oh girl, I can't believe you zoned out
Played me for this dude, nice shoes and a bottle of coast out Mont'
I'm that Don Wilson
First one to put you up six suites in that Resident Hilton
Mink coach, colorful stones and big stacks
Yeah, I was fucking, but you don't get me back like that
Causing me grief, you know me and homey had beef
Now you got me losing my mind, out up in these streets
You flamingo, showing your true colors
Heard ya'll was ducking down low when you see my brothers
But it's all good, I move from ex to next
Got the baddest little chick to sign off of them checks
Fat bubble, her body's like one of the best
But I don't need to say nothing, ask Kanye West
She eye candy, smoother than Godiva chocolate
And you mad cause you played yourself, it's your fault, trick
[Hook]
[Ne-Yo]
Shot through the heart, the girl caught me
Shot through the block, with him shot gun
He lucky, I ain't stop, copped the shotgun
Killah type cat, you better be glad, I'm not one
Had a couple stars up in my sky
She was my moon and my sunshine
Dude ain't even fly, he just some guy
You blamed yourself, I'm done, peace, one
[Hook]


[Kanye West]
Uh, Uh
Lets take it back to basics
When shit gets worse we converse
How we need a New Balance before the lines get crossed like Asics
Just look at what we got, if we don't shoot the Reeboks
This is a beat that no flow can detox
So the respect is due like my Louie back
I don't wanna have to check you
I'm as Chi as buck-fifty's and Pelle Pelle Leathers
Some say, my beats made the Bulls play better
I say, black on black is the hate that hate made
Sara Lee with the dough I'm talkin' bout the cake maid
McDonalds with the flow, served over over a billion
You've seen the video, words over the building
Uh, I wish I could give you this feeling, I wish I could give you this feeling
And when 
The Workout Plan
 ain't work out man
Me and Common is back on the corners again
On the corner
[Common]
Uh, yeah
Uh, yeah
I open my eyes
The corner is like African tribes
The black is subsidized
The black enterprize
The passion arise
The youth fantasize, who got some cash in they eyes
If youth dies, mamas askin' rationalize
Tryna' build a spot where ghetto bastards can rise
The ghetto has been bastardized by those who capitalize
Wonder if its a plan that the master devised
To bring his people to a land where the blacks are despised
On the corner


[Verse 1]
Didn't you know, I was waiting on you
Waiting on a dream that'll never come true
Didn't you know, I was waiting on you
My face turned to stone when I heard the news
When you decide to break the rules
Cause I just heard some real bad news
[Verse 2]
People'll talk like it's old news
I played it off and act like I already knew
Let me ask you how long have you known dude
You played it off and act like he's brand new
When you decide, to break the rules
Cause I just heard some real bad news
Real bad news
Real bad news
Real bad news
Oh, you just gon' keep another no you won't
Oh, you just gon' keep it like you never knew
Oh, you just gon' keep another love for you
Oh, you just gon' keep it like you never knew
While I'm waiting on a dream that'll never come true
Oh, you just gon' keep it like you never knew
My face turned to stone when I heard the news
What's on the news?
Channel cruise


[Hook:]
One for the impala's
Two for the gold D's
Three for the switches
Middle finger for the police
Nigga with an attitude, I will not let it die
Four fingers up, two twisted for the west side [x2]
[Verse 1]
Yo
I used to dribble the rock down the block, in '94
Shoot the courts out
And Killer Wayne brought that Porsche out
I had the illest jump shot
So he bet all his money on me
12 years old with the hunny's on me
Patrick Ewings on
I kept fresh kicks, take a nigga out his Jordan's if the motherfuckers fit
They fit
So I'm back up the block
Fuckin' with the homies tryin' to teach them how to slap box
In front of the crack spot
Fiends fighting over crack rock
Dimes The size of golf balls, yeah them shits was that hot
He had them black Locs like MC Ren
And Debull came through in that coke white Benz
Before 106 & Park and 24 inch rims
Before these corny nigga's kept these stickers under they brims
It was a little nigga in Compton, 5'10
"
He was dope as a motherfucker
I wanted to be like him
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Fuck it I ain't gonna lie homie
I used to do the hammer dance
Make it worse I steel toes on and hammer pants fucked up right?
That's when my pops had the weight
He had to blow when I was blowin' in Nintendo tapes
Got my ass whooped for taken the duck hunting gun outside
In my window watching all the kids have fun outside
Ice cream truck makin noise, I want to run outside
But I'mma get my ass whooped again if I run outside
Swear I was on punishment until my tenth grade year
This new girl move on the block, light skin with wavy hair
I asked her if she want to hump me, she was like: "I don't care"
So I took off her training bra
That's when she got scared
She wanted me to be her boyfriend
So I was like, "Yeah"
I'm tryin' to think of LL lines in the back of my head
"When I'm alone in my room"
I can't remember what he said
But I know Uncle Luke; bitch give me some head
It go
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Shit I'm grown now
Pops in jail, I'm on my own now
Got my first kilo
And my brick phone now
Two door cutless
, 
sittin' on that chrome now
Headed to the county jail
Two T's commin' home now
Yeah hommie shit changed
Nigga's don't bang like they used to
And I can't dunk like I us
ed to
Nigga's don't move fast enough when they hear the *WOO WOOP*
And takin' fades is played out like Fubu
I got a tv in the dash watching 
Friday
21 no felon, tell 'em nigga's crime pay
Red rag in my pocket
Doin' it my way
Two switches, so the cutless bounce sideways
4 amps, 15 beatin the trunk,
 try to jack me for my shit?
Got to beat me to the pump
Punk
I'm on my gangsta shit
Nigga with a attitude
On my motherfuckin' gangsta shit
[Hook]
[Outro Talking]
Hey low, I'm a take these nigga's back man
Back to the number 4 Jordan's nigga them shits were sway
Remember those motherfuckas?
We had the number 4 Jordan's man
When the new shits got old, we couldn't afford the new ones man
So we want to motherfuckin' pay-less and got that black shoe polish
Put so much shoe polish on those motherfucka's tryin' to keep them shiny black
That those motherfucka's turned leather! (haha)
Or like when the motherfuckin' ice cream nigga came through
I remember the nigga's name, it was Hector man
And he would come through in the ice cream truck
And got all the motherfuckin stickers on the ice cream truck
Like he just ballin' crazy out the game
This nigga got stickers of motherfuckin' ice cream sandwiches
Strawberry short cakes, UFOs, Motherfuckin' big sticks
Then you ask this nigga do he got any of them motherfucka's he talkin' about
All he got is Now & Laters
What the fuck you in an ice cream truck for then Hector?
Get the fuck out of here man. sshh
Look at these niggas now man
All these funny clothes and jackets
And all fuckin' little
This lookin' fuckin' crazy man
I'mma keep it gangsta on these nigga's low
Nigga's can't fuck with me man
I'm a on that motherfuckin' 1990
Straight Outta Compton
Express Yourself, Eazy E, Jerry Curl drippin'
MC Ren
, black loc straight out the swab meat
Dr. Dre black Khaki's black tee shirt
Motherfuckin' gold rope around my neck
DJ Yella
 
Raider motherfuckin' hat to the back
Ice Cube suck my motherfuckin' dick shit
Bitches


I got off the phone with this one dude. I guess he used to run a multi-billion dollar company or something like that and he had some advice for me, right. He said, 'I don't approve of your methods in your interviews lately.'
 He said he only saw one person before who ever really pulled this off 
and that was Muhammad Ali.
 But he said if he could just give me some advice, he doesn't approve of the way I'm going about things as of late. And when anybody that's supposed to have a lot of money talks to me and they give me advice, I call that free advice, because they're trying to tell me what to do and they ain't cut no check yet. 
If I look to the side of me, or the other side of me, or if I look to the Internet or if I'm reading, and I don't see somebody that 36-years-old that made it this far with nobody that told they couldn't do it this much.
 
Because the people that give me advice... I don't see them rocking for 15,000 motherfuckers in Brooklyn tonight.
 
And I don't know if y'all have heard of
 
[Nikola] Tesla
, and I'm not talking about 
the car
, 
I'm talking about the inventor.
 
Or if y'all ever heard about [Alejandro] Jodorowsky,
 the director who made 
Holy Mountain
. But there's so many amazing creative inventors who weren't recognized in their time. And if I've got the voice and I've got the opportunity to turn up in these interviews, I just have to look and say, 
'What do I have to lose?' What do I have to lose? We only have everything to gain. So don't ever let them make you think for one moment that I'm going insane. Because I sit back and see shit and think 'Am I the only one that's not crazy?' But every celebrity is so goddamn scared of losing everything, that they won't ever say nothing to you. And y'all see that shit too. I gotta keep it so true for you...
 Because when I say 
'creative genius,'
 I'm not saying that as a compliment to myself. I'm saying that because it's a burden to myself when these ideas keep me up at night. When you wanna give the world more and your ideas keep you up at night. When you wanna give the world so much more, so much more. 
And then nobody that runs Disney comes and sees this tour.
 And nobody that runs Disney comes and sees this tour. 
They'd rather see the headline and be on some bullshit than to give me one little chance. Than to give me one little, little, little chance.
 Than to give me one little chance despite the advance out of Tesla's basement, despite the advance out of me saying 
Jodorowsky's name and ya'll don't know who the fuck he is when everybody copied off of him
... And there's gonna be motherfuckers in this arena in a few months dancing all sloppy off of him...I love y'all so much you don't even understand. Because y'all help me to talk all this shit. Because when I be on the phone with these people that used to run companies and they're trying to tell me how to be me, y'all give me the power to talk my shit. And I swear to you, this is only the motherfucking beginning. And anybody who [says], 'Oh, he's the best of rap.' That's racist. And that's pigeonholing. That's pigeonholing. That's pigeonholing and putting motherfuckers in a box. And putting creative niggas in a box. If you believe you can do anything, please raise your hands up tonight. If you believe you can do anything, please put your hands in the sky. If you believe you can do anything, please put your hands so high. 
And I wish you could see my tears right now
. Put your hands up high. I wish you could feel my pain right now. 
Cause these dreams keep me up at night. Cause these dreams keep me up at night. These dreams keep me up at night. Dreams keep me up at night


[Produced by Nottz and Kanye West]
[Bridge]
It's what you all been waiting for ain't it?
What people pay paper for damn it, they can't stand it
They want something new, so let's get reacquainted
Became the hood favorite, I can't even explain it, I surprise myself too
Life of a Don, lights keep glowing
Coming in the club with that fresh shit on
With something crazy on my arm
Uh-uh-hum, and here's another hit; Barry Bonds
[Hook]
We outta here baby!
[Verse 1]
"Dude!" 
Fresh off the plane, "konichiwa," bitches
Turn around another plane, 
my passport on pivot
Ask for it I did it, 
that asshole done did it
Talked it then he lived it,
 
spit it then he shit it
I don't need writers, I might bounce ideas
But only I could come up with some shit like this
I done played the underdog my whole career
I've been a very good sport, haven't I, this year
They say "he going crazy and we seen this before"
But I'm doing pretty good as far as geniuses go
And I'm doing pretty hood in my pink polo
Nigga please, how you gonna say I ain't no Lo-head
Cause my Dior got me more model head
I'm insulted, you should go 'head
And bow so hard until your knees hit your forehead
And the flow just hit code red
Top 5 MCs, you ain't gotta remind me
Top 5 MCs: you gotta rewind me
I'm high up on the line, you could get behind me
But my head's so big you can't sit behind me
[Bridge]
[Hook: Lil Wayne]
Yeah, yeah, we outta here baby!
Wha, wha, we outta here baby!
Hey 
Mr. West
 we so outta here baby
[Verse 2: Lil Wayne]
And me, I'm Mr. Weezy Baby
I'm so bright not shady
My teeth and my ice so white like Shady
Ice in my teeth so refrigerated
I'm so fucking good like I'm sleeping with Megan
I'm all about my Franklins, Lincolns and Reagans
Whenever they make them, I shall hayve them
Oops, I meant "have them," I'm so crazy
But if you play crazy you be sleeping with daisies
I'm such a hay-vic, oops I meant "havoc"
And my drink's still pinker than the Easter rabbit
And I'm still cole like Keyshia's family
Stove on my waist turn beef to patties
And I ate it cause I'm so avid
I don't front and I don't go backwards
And I don't practice
 
and I don't lack shit
And you can get buried,
 
suck my bat bitch
[Hook]
[Bridge: Lil Wayne]
Swag at a hundred and climbin', baby, yeah
Life of a Don, lights keep glowing
Coming in the club with that fresh shit on
With something crazy on my arm
Ha Ha Hum, and here's another hit, Barry Bonds




[Intro: Pharrell]
Oh...um..
Wha? Hehe..
Let's dance..again
[Verse 1: Madonna]
Don't sit there like some silly girl..
If you wait too long it'll be too late..
I'm not tellin you something new
There ain't no time to lose
It's time for you to celebrate...
[Refrain: Madonna](Pharrell)
So, get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(Get up - little girl)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(It's time - your world)
Get DOWN, BEEP BEEP, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(Your life - your choice)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(It's time - live it up)
[Hook: Pharrell and Madonna]
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
On and on, on the beat goes
[Verse 2: Madonna]
You don't have the luxury of time..
You have got to say what's on your mind
Your head lost in the stars, you'll never go far
(No time to lose) It's time for you to read the signs
[Refrain: Pharrell and Madonna]
[Hook]
[Bridge: Madonna] (Pharrell)
Say what you like (Say what you like)
Do what you feel (Do what you feel)
You know ex-actly, who you are
(You know exactly who you are)
The time is right now, you got to decide (Whoo!)
Stand in the back, or be the star
(Don't sit in the back)
[Pharrell] (Madonna)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(Here comes - my hand)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(Take it - you can)
Get DOWN, BEEP BEEP, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(The time - is now)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat
(I'll show - you how)
On and on
[Bride 2: Madonna] (Pharrell)
I can't keep waiting for you (for you)
An-ti-ci-pating that you've
Nooooooooo, time to loooooose (for you)
I can't keep waiting for you
[Kanye West - Rap Verse]
Uh, here's an impromptu, I want you
I'm goin to tell you what I want to - do to you
Your girlfriend, she wants to - beautiful
Just flew in from Paris
 - 
voulez-vous
?
In the city that don't snooze
Smooze amongst the Who's Whos
And I use my celeb to get this one home
Why everything that feel so good gotta be so wrong?
Gimme room now, I'm like a vampire on the full moon now
And I don't know about you now
But I think I wanna try sumthin new now - see what it do now
And when you sat down
Uh, cause you was losing yo' breath now
Uh, cause you be doing it to def now
She be doin E to F now, what's left now?
Mr. West now, can you get any more fresh now?
I think I just did, just now
Talkin my shit, that's how
I'm a professio-nal, I admit that
Flashing Lights show I live that
Fame is a drug, wanna hit that
Cause they know exactly where to get that - did you get that?
[Kanye West]
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up offa yo' seat
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up offa yo' seat now
[Madonna] (Kanye West)
On and on...
The beat goes, on and on
(cause they know exactly where to get that - did you get that?)
Let's go
[Pharrell] (Madonna)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat (The beat goes..)
Get down, beep beep, gotta get up outta yo' seat (The beat goes..)
[Madonna]
On and on...
The beat goes, on and on...
The beat goes, on and on...
On and on...
On and on...


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Yeezy, Ne-yo, the remix ayo
I think it's time to hit 'em with the Mase flow
My uh she was gettin the best of me
But oooh child you my destiny
, 
and I know it's especially
Hard with all these girls just testing me
Uh and you gon' question me
If she even stand next to me
 
but you should laugh
Cause you my better half (woman laughing)
And these girls just fighting over the rest of me
Right now it feels so crazy, I know she just some lady
And my outfit is just so 80's
Not to mention McLaren Mercedes
And the 26 inch rim wheels looks so good with your 6-inch heels
Fly that you be on
Gucci on, aligned by Louie Vuitton
And we high as the way we cruising on
High like I like mercury
Why do I mention the solar system?
Cause, you in my soul and system
And we gon' take her home with this one
I got something that you gon' like
You got something that I can't fight
We got something that we both gon' like
[Bridge: Ne-Yo]
And I know this much is true
Baby, you have become my addiction, I'm so strung out on you
I can barely move but I like it
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
And it's all because of you [x3]
And it's all because...
Never get enough
She's the sweetest drug
[Verse 2: Ne-Yo]
Think of it every second
I can't get nothing done
Only concern is the next time, I'm gonna get me some
Know I should stay away from, cause it's no good for me
I try and try but my obsession won't let me leave
[Bridge: Ne-Yo]
I got a problem and I don't know what to do about it
Even if I did, I don't know if I would quit but I doubt it
I'm taken by the thought of it, and I know this much is true
Baby, you have become my addiction, I'm so strung out on you
I can barely move but I like it
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
[Outro: Ne-Yo]
Ain't no doubt, so strung out [x2]
Over you, over you, over you
Because of you
And it's all because of you
Never get enough
She's the sweetest drug, she's the sweetest drug


[Intro: Kanye West]
I know what it's like to feel down little girl
I hope someone lifts you up like the big guy who lifted me up
I'm talkin about the big guy right here: Cleveland Brown
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Not long ago I was lower than Lohan
No plan, a lost man, raisin' my little girl in a Cadillac Brougham
My quest success, but my life was a mess
Poor Kenny West, no zest, anti-depressed
Not dressed to impress
Matter fact more stressed
Than John Mayer waiting on his AIDS test
Then I met a man who taught me how to live large
Took me out of my car
Now I'm in his garage
Turns out all I needed was some inspiration
Like Mr. Miagi but a lot less Asian
My game was timid now my flow much bolder
Got a chubby brown angel on my shoulder, sayin'
[Hook: Keke Palmer, Kanye West, Mike Henry]
You know, it don't matter what you do
Cause I'll always be there for you
Be-Cleve in yourself, grow a mustache
Be-Cleve in yourself, slap your wife's ass
Be-Cleve in yourself, never smoke grass
Be-Cleve in yourself, really pass gas
Be-Cleve in yourself, Goochland! Goodnight!


[Prod. by Kanye West]
[Verse]
I want to be as free as the spirits of those who left
I'm talking Malcolm, Coltrane, my man Yusef
Through death grew conception, new breath and resurrection
For moms, new steps in a direction
In the right way,
 
told her,
 
"Inside is where the fight lay
And everything a nigga do may not be what he might say
Chicago nights stay, stay on the mind
But I write many lives, they, lay on these lines
Wavin' signs of the times,
 
many say the grind's on the mind
Shorties blunted-eyed and everyone wanna rhyme
Bush pushing lies, killers immortalized
We got arms but won't reach for the skies
Waiting for the Lord to rise,
 
I look into my daughter's eyes
And realize I'ma learn through her
The Messiah, might even return through her
If I'ma do it, I gotta change the world through her
Furs
 
and a Benz,
 
Gramps wantin 'em
Demons and old friends, Pops, they hauntin' him
The chosen one from the land of the frozen sun
Where drunk nights get remembered more than sober ones
Walk like warriors, we were never told to run
Explored the world to return to where my soul begun
Never looking back, or too far in front of me
The present is a gift, and I just want to be


[Kanye West]
Uh, G.O.O.D. Music, this our year
Backing drums by DJ Premier
Now let me count it down, who the fuck up in here?
Common
, Don,
 Old G, battle rap, oh
Y'all niggas know you can’t really fuck with that
Pusha T, the Clipse just made a classic
Good music together we too Jurassic
, 
you stay plastic
Ramadan with the flow, guaranteed everybody fasting
Big Sean is a don
CyHi Da Prynce
Why you so nervous dog stop being tense
If you ain't talking bout Rash we ain't got nothing in common
Fuck that and that's just common sense what the
[Pusha T]
Came in the game, 8 years prior
8 years later, your mans on fire
My Book of Eli, to all my subscribers
Play the two doors, street car named desire
Came in Grindin’, Ye’ came through the wire
Met at the crossroads, Bone Thugs inspired
1st of the month
, 
Trump to the buyers
Red toupee on the coupe you been fired
Smooth criminal, no prior’s
Man in the mirror, check no liar
Still let that butter fly like Mariah
Show me the money the black Jerry McGuire
Tom Cruise on that couch if that money right
West Hollywood feels like a bunny night
With GOOD company and better jewelers
To the Good Life, we GOOD music
[Big Sean]
Man, I wake up to a wet dream
Every day’s a Friday and every nights a sex scene
Every week is fashion week and every day I’m pressed clean
Detroit’s angel, I even got red wings
I’m headed to the ball, me and three prom queens
My life’s prom night and guess who’s the Prom King
They having a kissing fight and I’m Don King
Everybody know I’m coming soon like LeBron’s ring
I’m Big L, Notorious, Big Pun, Shawn Carter, Sean Combs and Connery all in one
Whoever told you sky’s the limit is looking dumb
Cause I’m 22 and I’m moonwalking on the sun
Oh thats your girl?
She feelin on my whoo there right next to a couple boaters
And she tryna motor boat her and 
im coming from the w-w-westside of the Motor
You might find banana clips ’cause it’s Guerilla warfare
Last year I was watching this from the couch and now I’m here
Thats to let you know what I’m about
Reaper black suit cuz my whole team’s killin'
Had to keep setting trends cuz your whole team stealin'
Many tell me I’m the man I ain't made it yet
Tell me who the baddest, I’ll see if I see them naked yet
Won’t stop til I get that Mercedes 700 CLK and Mercedes ain't made it yet
[Cyhi Da Prince]
I’m Mr. Got Bread like Quizno’s
Better known as MJ with the big nose
I swear your artist couldn’t see me on his tip toes
Only on TV I gotta take a quick pose
Let me stop I forgot this was a big show
If being dope made you broke I am piss poor
I’m big poppa plus I’m 2pacalypto
My mind is a weapon what I need to pop a clip for?
Huh, I’m doing this for hip hop
I'm coming after you, him and his spot!
Still tied to the streets like a fish knot
Ain't nothing fake, I’m not a Rolly with a tick tock
Atlanta repper in the home of the yankee
Rosewood suit on with the hanky
I got rich from the zones of the stanky
So everybody know my money long, lanky!
So I’m flexible stretching out my decimals
Switching up the flow got the crowd going testicles
Can’t bleep it out cuz there wasn’t nothing sexual
I’m blowing loud, somebody check the decibels
I’m impeccable they put me on the pedestal
And if you bite me, it’s good for you like a vegetable
Shows by the several, schedule full of festivals
And if I ever do time than you know its federal
Uh, incredible, yeah
[Common]
F-f-f-fam fam fam I’ma monster too
You don’t see I do things that the monsters do
The incomparable, remarkable, articles
About my audible technique, my technique
I recognize game like the ESPY’s
Cold to myself I say "God bless me"
 the truth
So I speak live and directly
You, I will set free my mic is where my check be
Rah, I echo, I echo, I echo, the sounds of the ghetto, future of the retro
Prolly in the metro just so I can get dough
The name is Common but the frame is special
Leave requested from the years I’ve invested
Arrested, develop,
 
addressed it, envelope
The body of the black party from Farley to Bob Marley
Go home or go hard, at home is life hardly
[Kanye West]
The plan was to drink till the pain over
What’s worse, the pain or the hangover?
Fresh air rolling down the window
Too many urkels on your team thats why your Winslow
I sold my soul to the devil that's a crappy deal
Least it came with a few toys like a happy meal
This game you could never win
Cause they love you then they hate you then they love you again
Get away from me lonliness
Get away from me misery
Get away from me fake shit, I can’t take the phoniness
Get away from me wack tracks
I can only make only hits
I’m an only child lost in the world
Where did the lonely kids go when the bell ring
Feeling like hell rings
Bringing me back down
Checking my background
Its ironic whats happening
Imagine if I didn’t have the ends
I wouldn't have so many imaginary friends
I’m spaced out Dog, I be on that Moon talk
Wonder if God asked Mike how to moon walk
I swear to momma wish me and my father talk more
I stopped visitin around the time I was a sophomore
I guess everything I hate about me I see in him
And I ain't finna change, so we’ll never agree again
Just a few things pouring out my soul
Rosewood
 
we could see her with our eyes closed


[Hook: Kanye West]
My raps is better than yours
My plaques is better than yours
My tracks is better than yours
You can have one but I have to charge
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
We can start with the hits on my arm I already got the bomb
Now all I need is my first LP to go gold
Then I will have the qualm uh-uh uh-uh uh-uh
I'm Kon the Louis Vuitton Don
Bought my Mom a purse now she Louis Vuitton Mom
Still might throw on a little low arm they want me to stop go on gon
They don't want me to shop and me spending that hard
Oh my God is that a black card
I turned around and replied why yes
But I prefer the term African American Express
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
La La La La La Off MTV
La La La La La When you gonna go out with Me
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Brains Power and Muscle like Dame Puffy and Russell
Your boy back on his hustle don't know you don't discuss you
Every rapper want to know when they can get to work
Every stylist want to know where they can get the shirts
Everybody ripping my style like the shit that hurts
But they don't give me my credit that's the shit that hurts
There's something I might say There's something I might play
A beat I might made might make they life change
And save they whole deal They wrist is on chill
They house is on hill
 
You could be Lauryn Hill
See y'all write songs to keep the lights on
I'mma go in Def Jam and turn the brights on
Man I'm just sayin
When I wanted to rap y'all thought I was just playin
Now y'all just prayin
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Common]
You was a vic in high school now you a thug
Better step in the name of love
Before you giving pain a hug
Needing dope is like pain to drugs
Or aiming slugs til the game unplugged
Like a scoreboard with vice and warlords
Hot merchandise prices they want more for it
You was pink as ice single need to think it twice
Over the bitch and you came out like freaks in the night
Freed your mind at a cheaper price on the street trying to seek advice
I'm on point like I speak to dice
Took the underground at a steeper heights
May real niggas see the light got fat girls eating right
[Outro: Kanye West]
Ha ha we in this bitch
It's Common and Kanye y'all niggas know what time it is
Chi-Town motherfuckers
 
DJ Ferris
 Heavy Hitters What Up?
Mike Love
 What Up? 
DJ Enuff
Foreal(Pharrell) That's my favorite producer by the way
That's why I had to rap on this Cuz
His tracks is Better Than Yours
My tracks is Better Than Yours
Just Blaze tracks is Better Than Yours
You can have one but we all gonna
Charrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrgeaaawwwww
Plain Pat What Up?
 
Big John What Up?
 
John Mnop What Up?
Don. C What Up?
 J.B. What Up? 
GLC What Up?
 
Bang What Up? Yeah
Really Doe
What Up?
Arrowstar What Up? Yeah!
Oh did I mention the new head of my management Benny Madina
Yo G, Hop we taxin these niggas right now Plain Pat What Up?
That's all


[Verse 1]
You don't need me to ever write
I read your last message at least 1000 times
At least 1000, at least 1000 times
Alright, alright, alright
Why did you ever listen to
People trying to hate on you
At least you know that's nothing new
Stop everything you're doing now
Cause baby, you're awesome
So awesome
You look too good to be at work
You feel too good to ever hurt
I hope you ready for tonight
I'm gon cook, you'll be dessert
You can't be still
You gotta move, you gotta dance
I gotta live, I gotta love
I got a hope, I got a chance
Cause baby, you're awesome
You don't need to listen to your manager
You're way too hot for them to handle you
Baby, not doing nothing ? you
Came for something that I've got it
Why you fallin' on me
Cause I'd rather do nothing with you
Than something with somebody new
Yeah, I'd rather do nothing with you
Than something with somebody new
Stop everything you're doing now
Cause baby you're awesome
Don't let nobody bring you down
You're so awesome
You're so out the park
You're so after dark
You're so sleepless nights, oh you feel so right
Oh, you nnannanaa
I know you must be tired
From running through my mind
Can I come inside?
Cause baby you're awesome
Also, I'm also awesome, also
I'm also awesome
Y'all know
And I'd rather do nothing with you
Than something with somebody new
Yeah, I'd rather do nothing with you
Than something with somebody new
Stop everything you're doing now
Cause baby you're awesome
Don't let nobody bring you down
You're so awesome
You're so out the park,
 you're so after time
You're so breaking ?, oh it feels so right


[Produced by DJ Toomp]
[Intro]
Stadium status
[Hook]
My big brother was B.I.G.'s brother
Used to be Dame and Biggs brother
Who was Hip Hop brother,
 
who was No I.D. friend
No I.D. my mentor, now let the story begin
[Verse 1]
It's the 
 Tour, sellout; picture
Us in the mall, coppin' Iceberg and yell out "Jigga"
Yeah, that's what we'll yell out, yell out
You know the name do I gotta spell out or tell 'bout
J-A-Y,
 
and 'Ye so shy
Now he won't even step to his idol to say hi
Standing there like a mime and let the chance pass by
Back of my mind, "He could change your life
With all these beats I did, at least let him hear it
At least you can brag to ya friends back at the gig"
But he got me out me out my momma crib
Then he help me get my momma a crib
[Hook]
My big brother was B.I.G.'s brother
Used to be Dame and Biggs brother
Who was Hip Hop brother,
 
who was No I.D. friend
No I.D. my mentor, now let the story begin
Begin, Begin
Let the story begin
If you feel the way I feel why don't you wave your hands?
[Verse 2]
Fresh off the plane, I'm off to Baseline
Nothing handed out, I'm 'bout to take mine
'round the same time of that 
 1
And these beats in my pocket was that blueprint for him
I'd play my little songs in that old back room
He'd bob his head and say "Damn! Oh, that's you?"
But by 
, I was blacking out
Partyin' S.O.B.'s and we had packed a crowd
Big brother got his show up at Madison Square
And I'm like "Yeah, yeah, we gon' be there" but
Not only did I not get a chance to spit it
Carline told me I could buy two tickets
I guess big brother was thinkin' a little different
And kept little brother at bay, at a distance
But everything that I felt was more bogus
Only made me more focused, only wrote more potent
Only thing I wanna know is why I get looked over
I guess I'll understand when I get more older
Big brother saw me at the bottom of the totem
Now I'm on the top and everybody on the scrotum
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Have you ever walked in the shadow of a giant?
Not only a client, the Presidito,
 
hola, Hovito
The game gettin' foul so here's a free throw
I was always on the other side of the peephole
Then I dropped "Jesus Walks"
 
now I'm on the steeple
And we know, "New Jack City" got to keep my brother
But to be number one I'mma beat my brother
On that "Diamonds" remix I swore I spazzed
Then my big brother came through and kicked my ass
Sibling rivalry, only I could see
It was the pride in me that was drivin' me
At the Grammys I said, "I inspired me"
But my big brother who I always tried to be
When I kicked a flow it like pick-and-roll
Cause even if he gave me the rock, it's give-and-go
I guess Beanie's style was more of a slam dunk
But my shit was more like a finger roll
But I had them singles though
And them hoes at the show gonna mingle, yo, heh, y'all know
I told Jay I did a song with Coldplay
Next thing I know he got a song with Coldplay
Back in my mind I'm like "Damn, no way"
Translate, espanol "No way, Jose"
Then I went and told Jay Brown
Shoulda known that was gonna come back around
Shoulda talked to you like a man, shoulda told you first
But I told somebody else and that's what made shit worse
[Bridge]
My big brother was B.I.G.'s brother
So here's a few words from ya kid brother
If you admire somebody you should go on 'head tell 'em
People never get the flowers while they can still smell 'em
A idol in my eyes, god of the game
Heart of the City
, 
Roc-a-Fella chain
Never be the same, never be another
Number one, Young Hov, also my big brother
[Hook]
My big brother was B.I.G.'s brother
Used to be Dame and Biggs brother
Who was Hip Hop brother,
 
who was No I.D. friend
No I.D., my mentor, and that's where the story ends
[Outro]
Toomp killed this shit


[Intro]
She finally made it. The stars are out tonight. Ooooh weee!
[Hook: Kanye West]
Big screen
Hollywood lights
She wants the big screen
Hollywood lights
She wants it
[GLC]
At first came the breast and then the 
dookie chain
Got a little hoochie game and then the Gucci came
The Ultima and then the Mustang
Lookin' in the mirror, "Aye" she must say
Diane Keaton
A gangster she was seekin'
With two then the three can keep a secret
Bein' exposed to the goals of a baller
So she drove a Rolls with a Prada
Put up the ?, rocked Fendi
Rarely Ed Hardy she said the shit was trendy
Married to the mob like she was Miss Wendy
She would spend the bread of men instead of spendin'
Her own, her tone was eccentric
The Gulf coast was home for this mistress
Felt pain, but shoppin' killed this
Then a little bit of Wayne lent her something for this princess
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
Baby girl you're dangerous
Everybody know that you love those lights
Baby girl you're dangerous
So dangerous, but it's only right
I'm back in your life
Return Of The Jedi
L.A. for a night, then return on the red eye
It's a party in your closet
I swear it's going off
I see it's Dolce & Gabbana
Viktor & Rolf
Ann Roth
Uh, huh
Not to shabby
You're good around celebs, not too laughy
So you deserve a rapper and/or athlete
And/or something more than just a backseat
Action, I had more beats than I had rhymes
Now they say you got more girls than you got time
To spend with 'em
So I throw them all on the team
Only problem is, I see they all want a ring, ring
Let me tell you once ting
It's gonna take a lot to be down with the king, king
Down, down with the king
Now are you really ready for the big screen?
[Hook]


[Bridge]
People always told me be careful of what you do
And don't go around breaking young girls' hearts
And mother always told me be careful of who you love
And be careful of what you do cause the lie becomes the truth
Hey
(Yeah! Uh... Uh uh...)
[Verse 1]
She was more like a beauty queen from a movie scene
I said don't mind, but what do you mean I am the one
Who will dance on the floor in the round
She said I am the one, who will dance on the floor in the round
She told me her name was Billie Jean
As she caused a scene
Then every head turned with eyes that dreamed of being the one
Who will dance on the floor in the round
[Bridge]
[Hook]
Billie Jean is not my lover
She's just a girl who claims that I am the one
But the kid is not my son
She says I am the one, but the kid is not my son
[Verse 3]
For 40 days and for 40 nights
The law was on her side
But who can stand when she's in demand
Her schemes and plans
Cause we danced on the floor in the round
So take my strong advice, just remember to always think twice
Do think twice
(Do think twice)
She told my baby we'd danced 'till three
Then she looked at me
Then showed a photo my baby cried
His eyes looked like mine
Go on dance on the floor in the round, baby
[Bridge 2]
People always told me be careful of what you do
And don't go around breaking young girls' hearts
And mother always told me be careful of who you love
And be careful of what you do cause the lie becomes the truth
Hey
[Hook]
(Uh uh, yeah yeah yeah, number one)
Billie Jean is not my lover
Billie Jean is not my lover
Billie Jean is not my lover
Billie Jean is not my lover
Billie Jean... Billie Jean...
Billie Jean is not my lover
Billie Jean is not my lover
Billie Jean...


[Intro]
Nobody ever really loved loved loved loved
Me me me me me me me me…
[Verse 1]
She say she gotta do her nails and condition her hair
Find a pair of shoes and a fittin’ brasier
Slick shorty describe her description it’s fair
But say no other chick in this world can compare
And no other nigga got permission to stare
I say I never listen
Never mention I care
When they gone I never miss em
Never diss em a tear
Cause other women to fill that position is there
It’s the same game just a different affair
Different dame, different name, different distance from here
She say well things gon change
Now her mission is clear
Let her get off the phone and get off to homes
She knock on the door
It's business from there
Start strippin' her gear and switchin’ her rear
I'm not flinchin'
Cartier on my vision impaired
And enough ice
To condition the air
Now the boy got game and the girl got hurt
The boy got brains and the girl got worth
Cause the boy got fame
Do whatever he say
Now the boy get paged like every other day
[Refrain]
Nobody ever really loved me
It's just the birds and the bees
The her's and the he's
The his the ma’ams
The sirs and the she's
C’mon, c’mon
And u know this man
And if somebody ever loved me
[Verse 2]
She say she gotta get him dressed and hit him with rules
Feed ‘em breakfast and send ‘em to school
She say she need a rest her mind she finna lose
I tell her recline ke’ and just keep cool
She sick to her area her she fixin' to move
In physical fitness her own business
Can I get a witness, this chick is a jewel
And she tired of the things that I’m sendin’ her through
She say when I’m gon see you
And don’t say whenever,
 
you
Know I won't leave you
But won't wait forever
 
and
Got my own paper
And don’t take your cheddar
And no I'm not finished
I won't take the check
And I say chill
 
you my winner from the door so
Step for set and dinner and a show
She say I be wearin' blue in the worst way
Don’t wear your chain, just the watch I bought for your birthday
Boy on the town and older woman down cause
Boy make her laugh when older woman sad
And older woman freak and he hold her ‘til she sleep
And he gotta send her flowers like every other week
[Refrain]
[Verse 3]
She say she get off work at a quarter to nine
So don’t be late stop ignoring the time
Unless you got something more important in mind
Like wildin' wit them whores I’m filin' for divorce
I’ll see yo ass in court just send me child support she
Wanna get married and child wanna carry
My child, her smile, my ears in her belly
She even got Fias-wife typed in her cellie
She been there from the start she there from the heart
From the walk, to the bike, to the bus, to the cars
The flights
 
and the kites the lonely lonely nights
From please leave on the lights when she was scared of the dark
And she got the pin if I ever hit the pen
I gotcha baby say I’ve got her crazy
Ever since that party at the Rex
I locked down her heart in cardiac arrest
Now the boy got a wifey and the wifey wanna ring
Cause she wanna be his wife
But the boy had it right
That you just ain’t ready
It's too early in your life
But whatever the weather that boy will have her ever
[Refrain]


[Produced by Sonny Digital with co-production from Kanye West, Lifted, Mike Dean, BWheezy and Anthony Kilhoffer]
[Intro: 2 Chainz]
Yeah birthday, it's your birthday
If I die bury me inside that Louis store
[Hook: 2 Chainz]
They ask me what I do and who I do it for
And how I come up with this shit up in the studio
All I want for my birthday is a big booty ho
All I want for my birthday is a big booty ho
When I die, bury me inside the Gucci store
When I die, bury me inside the Louis store
All I want for my birthday is a big booty ho
All I want for my birthday is a big booty ho
[Verse 1: 2 Chainz]
She got a big booty so I call her Big Booty
Scrr..Scrr.. wrists moving, cooking, getting to it
I'm in the kitchen, yams everywhere
Just made a juug, I got bands everywhere
You the realest nigga breathing if I hold my breath
Referee, with the whistle, brrrrrt, hold his tech
Extendo clip,
 
extendo roll
When your girl leave me she need a hair salon
Hair weave killer going on a trapathon
See I done had more bombs than Pakistan
Dope bomb, dro bomb, and a pill bomb
See nigga, I'm balling, you in will call
When I die, bury me inside the jewelry store
When I die, bury me inside the Truey store
True to my religion,
 
two everything I'm too different
So when I die, bury me next to two bitches
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Ah, Yeezy Yeezy how you do it huh
It's my birthday, I deserve to be greedy huh
She holding out, she ain't giving to the needy huh
You go downstairs and fall asleep with the TV on
Ya'll been together ten years, you deserve a ménage
Especially if you put that BMW in the garage
Especially if you paid a couple payments on her Mamma crib
Went to her niece's graduation, man I hate those kids
Last birthday she got you a new sweater
Put it on, give her a kiss, and tell her do better
She said how bout I get you jewelry from the West End
How bout she hit the Westin and get her best friend
I'm joking, I'm just serious, I asked her
Don't be acting like no actress, if we preaching then we practice
Don't be reaching, don't be touching shit
We in Kanye West's Benz
Cause I will turn you back to a pedestrian
[Hook]
[Verse 3: 2 Chainz (Kanye West)]
It's your birthday, it's your birthday
Bad bitch contest, you in first place
You in first place, you in first place
Bad bitch contest, you in first place
I show up with a check to your work place
(Then hand the valet the keys to the Merces)
Tell the DJ play your song, this shit come on
(What I'm seeing from the back I can't front on)
They ask me what I do and who I do it for
When I die, bury me inside the booty club
Get it girl, get it girl, get it get it girl
I might switch it up and get your girl
[Hook]
[Outro: 2 Chainz (Kanye West)]
Deuce and Ye
We like Snoop and Dre
Isn't this your birthday, baby
You deserve a coupe today
(You in first place, you in first place)
(Bad bitch contest you in first place)


Bittersweet, you're gonna be the death of me
I don't want you, but I need you,
I love you and I hate you at the very same time
See what I want so much, should never hurt this bad
Never did this before, that's what the virgin says
We've been generally warned, that's what the surgeon says
God talk to me now this is an emergency
And she claim she only with me for the currency
You cut me deep bitch, cut me like surgery
And I was too proud to admit that it was hurtin' me
I'd never do that to you at least purposely
We breakin' up again
We makin' up again
But we don't love no more
I guess we fuckin' then
Have you ever felt you want to kill her
And you mixed them emotions with Tequila
And you mix that with a little bad advice
On one of them bad nights you have a bad fight
And you talkin' about her family, her aunts and shit
And she say motherfucker your mama's a bitch
You know, domestic drama and shit
All the attitude
I'll never hit a girl but I'll shake the shit out of you
But Ima be the bigger man
Big pimpin' like Jigga man
Oh I guess I figure it's
Bittersweet,
You're gonna be the death of me
I don't want you, but I need you
I love you and I hate you at the very same time
See what I want so much, should never hurt this bad
Never did this before, that's what the virgin says
We've been generally warned, that's what the surgeon says
God talk to me now this is an emergency
And my niggas said I shouldn't let it worry me
I need to focus on the girls we getting currently
But I been thinking and it got me back to sinkin' it
this relationship even got me back to drinkin' and this Hennessy
Is gonna be the death of me
And I always thought that you havin' my child was our destiny
But I can't even vibe with you sexually
Coz every time that I try you will question me
Sayin', "You fuckin' them girls, disrespectin' me?
You don't see how your lies is affecting me
You don't see how life was supposed to be
And I never let a nigga get that close to me
And you ain't cracked up to what you was supposed to be
You always gone, you always be where them hoes'll be."
And this the first time she ever spit her soul to me
I fucked up and I know it G
I guess it's bittersweet poetry


[Hook: John Mayer + (Kanye West)]
Bittersweet
You're gonna be the death of me
I don't want you, but I need you
I love you, hate you at the very same time
Bittersweet
(See what I want so much should never hurt this bad)
(Never did this before, that's what the virgin says)
(We've been generally warned, that's what the surgeon says)
(God talk to me now, this is an emergency)
[Verse 1]
And she claims she only with me for the currency
You cut me deep bitch, cut me like surgery
And I was too proud to admit that it was hurting me
I'd never do that to you, at least purposely
We breaking up again, we making up again
But we don't love no more, I guess we fucking then
Have you ever felt you ever want to kill her?
And you mix them emotions with tequila
And you mix that with a little bad advice
On one of them bad nights, y'all have a bad fight
And you talk about her family, her aunts and shit
And she say "Motherfucker your momma's a bitch."
You know, domestic drama and shit, all the attitude
I'd never hit a girl, but I'll shake the shit out of you
But I'mma be the bigger man
Big pimpin' like Jigga man
Oh I guess I figure it's
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
And my niggas said I shouldn't let it worry me
I need to focus on the girls we gettin' currently
But I been thinkin' and it got me back to sinkin'
 and
This relationship it even got me back to drinkin'
Now this Hennessy
It's gonna be the death of me
And I always thought that you having my child was our destiny
But I can't even vibe with you sexually
Cause every time that I'd try you would question me
Saying, "You fucking them girls, disrespecting me
You don't see how your lies is affecting me?
You don't see how our life was supposed to be?
And I never let a nigga get that close to me
And you ain't cracked up to what you were supposed to be
You always gone, you always be where them ho's will be."
And this the first time she ever spilled her soul to me
[Hook]
Bittersweet 
(I fucked up and I know it G)
You're gonna be the death of me (I guess it's bittersweet poetry)
I don't want you, but I need you
I love you, hate you at the very same time
[Hook x2]


[Kanye West]
I hear the girls scream soon as we arrivin'
You can ask Ibn, we be straight mackin'
Y'all work at IBM, hotels they be in
Ooh la la, tres bien magnifique
Any street
Father is the black Bruce Wayne
Only shorty in preschool rockin' two chains
If you talkin' 'bout marriage, you mean multi-million heiress
[Pizzle]
Tryna hand fee
d us tell the
 niggas to anty up
We not off no more, pearlies in a show, fur
So pick your auntie up, I gotta run to that pole


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I guess I get mad when you get boxed in
So mad, you wanna start boxin'
So mad, you gonna turn to Tyson
Slicin' and dicin'
Paparazzi, I'm like a Nazi to 'em
I'm not Bill Cosby to 'em
And I ain't Bing Crosby
More like [?] to 'em
Aye yo, I've got to ruin
The image and the style that you're used to doin'
When people usually do music
I am a visionary, Christian soldier, don't confuse it
Before I lose it and have to prove it
This the way that we gon', time; we gotta move it to the future
Karma Sutra, any way that suit ya
Don't shoot ya, stop the violence and it's been stopped
We stopped the violence in the hip-hop
We stopped the hatin' and the degradation
We 'bout to build like One Nation
Got off the phone with Benjamin Carson
Uh, that's the next president, arson
Burn it down, burn Hollywood, burn like Ice Cube said
I'm the rudest, a lot of people say that
Cause they say, "Ye, don't play that"
They be off that Grey Goose, I be off that Ye Juice
That's the way I stay loose
Confidence and esteem, American dream
My crib's spatial and my relationship is interracial
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I don't know where to start, I don't know where to start
Maybe the chart, maybe the heart
Maybe the flow, maybe the gold
Where I was grown, what I grew up in
Well, you see, my mama divorced my daddy
And moved my family when I was 3
And in the cold, straight from Chicago where I go
And everybody know, from my homie Don C, I be air
Aye, yo, like IBM or Apple, Steve Jobs of this
Yeah, I'm on my job with this
Aye, yo, it's very, very simple
You heard me on Jimmy Kimmel, I can do it every tempo
I'll use my temple
I wanna build a temple, I wanna build churches
That could be as big as The Adam's Family's, where Lurch is
Aye, yo, this is not a circus
The zoo is closed, motherfuckers
It ain't no cursin' in the verse which you know is not perfect
And now you know it's still worth it
I might short-circuit, I might just black out
Hit you with that "BLOCKA!"
You know I'm Ibaka
Number One Chief Rocker, Number One Chief Rocker
Ain't nobody gon' stop him, ain't nobody gon' stop us
Because God on my side, that's the way I ride
Jesus Christ, Yeezus nice!
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
One time I had lost my faith
But I had to stay faithful and grateful for the God I was given
The way that I was livin' or the life that I've been livin'
It didn't make a difference
See, when I was 30, I had 6 parents
Grandmother, grandfather, grandmother, grandfather
Mother, father, now I've only got one parent
Life could change in a blink, and that is apparent
But still you've got to stay strong
I don't know what everybody else is on
Sometimes I don't listen to music, I just need to zone out
Sometimes I don't listen to music, everybody clones now
And I doubt they even listen, and I ain't tryna diss 'em
But sometimes I be in music and feel like it's a prison
And everybody say bein' a rockstar is everything
But see, I wanna do everything
And I know I could do everything
And be anything that I wanna be
So simply, if you wanna be like Mike
I wanna be like Christ, I wanna be that nice
You know what I'm saying?
Okay, this beat just threw me off
Took it extra old-school
This ain't no freestyle beat, yo, yo, dude!


[Produced By Daft Punk & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
For my theme song
My leather black jeans on
My by-any-means on
Pardon, I'm getting my scream on
Enter the kingdom
But watch who you bring home
They see a black man with a white woman
At the top floor they gone come to kill King Kong
Middle America packed in
Came to see me in my black skin
Number one question they're askin'
Fuck every question you askin'
If I don't get ran out by Catholics
Here come some conservative Baptists
Claiming I'm overreactin'
Like them black kids in Chiraq bitch
[Hook]
Four in the mornin', and I'm zonin'
They say I'm possessed, it's an omen
I keep it 300, like the Romans
300 bitches, where the Trojans?
Baby we livin' in the moment
I've been a menace for the longest
But I ain't finished, I'm devoted
And you know it, and you know it
[Bridge]
So follow me up cause this shit 'bout to go (down)
I'm doing 500, I'm outta control (now)
But there's nowhere to go (now)
And there's no way to slow (down)
If I knew what I knew in the past
I would've been blacked out on your ass
[Hook]
Four in the mornin', and I'm zonin'
They say I'm possessed, it's an omen
I keep it 300, like the Romans
300 bitches, where the Trojans?
Baby, we livin' in the moment
I've been a menace for the longest
But I ain't finished, I'm devoted
And you know it, and you know it
[Verse 2]
Stop all that coon shit
Early morning cartoon shit
This is that goon shit
Fuck up your whole afternoon shit
I'm aware I'm a wolf
Soon as the moon hit
I'm aware I'm a king
Back out the tomb bitch
Black out the room, bitch
Stop all that coon shit
These niggas ain't doin' shit
Them niggas ain't doin' shit
Come on homie what happened
You niggas ain't breathin', you gaspin'
These niggas ain't ready for action
Ready-ready for action
[Hook]
Four in the mornin', and I'm zonin'
I think I'm possessed, it's an omen
I keep it 300 like the Romans
300 bitches, where the Trojans?
Baby, we livin' in the moment
I've been a menace for the longest
But I ain't finished, I'm devoted
And you know it, and you know it
[Bridge]
[Outro]
God! [x11]


[Produced by DJ Frank E, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Kanye West]
Whose fault?
[Intro: John Legend]
Let's play the blame game, I love you, more
Let's play the blame game for sure
Let's call out names, names, I hate you, more
Let's call out names, names, for sure
I'll call you bitch for short
As a last resort, and my first result
You call me motherfucker for long
At the end of it you know we both were wrong
[Hook: John Legend]
But I love to play the blame game, I love you more
Let's play the blame game for sure
Let's call her names, names, I hate you, more
Let's call her names, names, for sure
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
On a bathroom wall I wrote
"I'd rather argue with you than be with someone else"
I took a piss
 and dismiss it like "fuck it"
And I went and found somebody
 
else
Fuck arguing and harvesting the feelings
Yo, I'd rather be by my fucking self
Till about two a.m. and I call back
And I hang up and I start to blame myself
Somebody help...
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
You weren't perfect but you made life worth it
Stick around, some real feelings might surface
Been a long time since I spoke to you in a bathroom
Gripping you up, fucking and choking you
What the hell was I supposed to do?
I know you ain't getting this type of dick from that local dude
And if you are I hope you have a good time
Cause I definitely be having mine
And you ain't finna see a mogul get emotional
Every time I hear bout other niggas is strokin' you
Lying, say I hit you, he sitting there consoling you
Running my name through the mud, who's provoking you?
You should be grateful a nigga like me ever noticed you
Now you noticeable and can't nobody get control of you
One a.m. and can't nobody get a hold of you
I'm calling your brother's phone like what was I supposed to do?
Even though I knew, he never told the truth
He was just gon' say whatever that you told him to
At a certain point I had to stop asking questions
Y'all got dirt on each other like mud wrestlers
I heard he bought some coke with my money
That ain't right girl
You getting blackmailed for that white girl
You always said, "Yeezy, I ain't your right girl"
You'll probably find one of them
 
"I like art"-type girls
All of the lights
, she-was-caught-in-the-hype girl
And I was satisfied being in love with the lie
Now who to blame, you to blame, me to blame
For the pain and it poured every time when it rained
Lets play the blame game
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
"Things used to be, now they not
Anything but us is who we are
Disguising ourselves as secret lovers
We've become public enemies
We walk away like strangers in the street
Gone for eternity
We erased one another
So far from where we came
With so much of everything, how do we leave with nothing?
Lack of visual empathy equates the meaning of L-O-V-E
Hatred and attitude tear us entirely"
 
- Chloe Mitchell
[Hook x2: Kanye West]
I can't love you this much
No, I can't love you
 this much
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
And I know that you are somewhere doing your thing
And when the phone called it just ring and ring
You ain't pick up but your phone accidentally called me back
And I heard the whole thing
I heard the whole thing, the whole thing, the whole thing
["The Best Birthday": Chris Rock]
Ohh my God
Baby you done took this shit to another mother fucking level!
Now a 
neighborhood nigga
 like me 
ain't supposed to be gettin no pussy like this
God damn, God damn!
Who taught you how to get sexy for a nigga?
(Yeezy taught me)
You never used to talk dirty, but
 
now you God damn disgusting!
My, my God, 
where'd you learn that?
(Yeezy taught me)
Look at you mother fucking butt ass naked...
With them motherfucking Jimmy Choos on...
Who taught you how to put some motherfucking Jimmy Choos on?
(Yeezy taught me)
Yo you took your pussy game up a whole 'nother level!
This is some 
Cirque du Soleil
 pussy now! Shit!
You done went all porno on a nigga, okay?
 
And I, and I love it...
And I thank you, I thank you, my dick thanks you!
How did you learn, how... how did your pussy game come up?
(Yeezy taught me)
I was fucking parts of your pussy I'd never fucked before!
I was in there like "Oh, shit! I never been here before!"
I've never even seen this part of pussy town before!
It's like you got this shit re-upholstered or some shit. What the fuck happened?
Who, who the fuck got your pussy all re-upholstered?
(Yeezy re-upholstered my pussy)
You know what, I got to thank Yeezy. And when I see that nigga, I'mma thank him. I'mma buy the album, I'mma download that motherfucker,
 
I'm-a shoot a bootlegger!
That's how good I feel about this nigga
Oww, 
I still can't believe you got me this watch!
This motherfucker is the exact motherfucker I wanted!
Even with the bezel!
 This is the motherfucker I wanted!
I saw this shit, I saw it, 
Twista had this shit on in 
!
I remember, Twista had this motherfucker on in 
!
That's right, that's right! Yo yo babe, yo yo 
this is the best birthday ever!
Where you learn to treat a nigga like this?
(Yeezy taught me)
Yeezy taught you well, Yeezy taught you well


[Hook]
I fly, I fly high, 
I’m blazing
, I’m blazing, feels like I’m blazing
I fly, I fly high, I’m blazing, I’m blazing, feels like I’m blazing
Feels like I’m
[Verse 1: Nicki Minaj]
How could it be, little me
Had the power to be the best B, in the league
Yeah inevitably, but could it be little me
You was heckling me, now it’s monotony winning regularly
I catch rec on recreation,
 
so I exceed all your expectations
Bitches ain't got it in ‘em, I kill ‘em and then I skin ‘em
The contract was signed but I am the addendum
So wh-where my dawgs at, Randy
Ma-ma-matter fact, get off my dick bitch, Andy
Ca-ca-ca-cause everything is fine and dandy
Go against me nooooow, I dare you, Bambi
Half a million dollars just to upgrade the car show
I ain't even detonate the bombs in the arsenal
Before the storm comes the calm
Hope you can take the heat like LeBron
Ahh, ha hahahaha ha
I’m the best now, anybody with some money should invest now
Soccer mom needs to organize a pep rall’
You game over bitch, Gatorade, wet towel
Mothafuckers ain't ready, they neva been
As long as I am in the game, you’ll never win
I’m on that different type of high, heroin
Put on my cape and hit the sky, heroine!
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
This is the moment, grab your Kodak
While I’m flying with a flow that is
The greatest throwback since that Nolan Ryan
And the days been crazy and the nights even wilder
And the lights even brighter, baby stand next to my fire
Only higher is Messiah or notes from Mariah
‘rari six hundred horses, that’s my chariot of fire?
Where we flying, they can’t find us
 
all them broke days behind us
I just took your whole life and redesigned it
I think I’m Marc Jacobs, I think I’m Lagerfeld
I think without makeup, you still bad as hell
I'mma grab your waist then, I'mma grab your face and
Then I'mma taste it, then I'mma blaze it
Hello all my bad girls, this just in Yeezy hurt the beat
Like he fucked her best friend and she let him back in
And he just did it again, He crazy, he blazin, he off the deep end
I’m blazin’ I’m flagrant, Im crazy I’m saying
Too much for the World so they
 
abbreviate him
His past is her fav, his stats is amaze
Her dress is just per’ uhh
Prada coloured beige
It obvi’ we the ishh and I’m rolling with my brits
So real you so trill.
 
baby everything legit
How you feel, they say we crazed cause our styles so diff’
They'll be jeal' when we in the mag looking magnif’
As if I ain't used Magnums on your favourite bad bitch
Fuck these background niggas I was tryna adlib
Add this, we blazin’
Nicki what you think, 
I got two White Russians but we also need some drinks


[Produced by Hudson Mohawke, co-produced by Kanye West]
[Verse 1: Teyana Taylor]
Ooh baby, the day you stepped into my world
You noticed I'm the kind of girl who loves her diamonds and white pearls
So tempt me to jetset away in London
To sip on some tea, you surprise me with gifts from Tiffany
Ooh (La la la la la la la la)
I love the way we livin' boy
But my daddy say, "You don't need that boy"
So let's run away, let's run away
Momma say I'm too young for love
And lovin' you is all I'm thinkin' of
My heart tells me that you're the one
It's the feeling you give, it is
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
Pure bliss
Like you've got the key to my heart
Simple as a touch and a kiss
Never knew a feeling like this
Pure bliss, pure bliss
Nobody can tear us apart
Baby it's as good as it gets
(Kiss kiss kiss kiss)
Loving you will never be hard
This is pure bliss
[Verse 2: John Legend]
I remember when the pilot closed the door
Said it's time for lift off
You said, "What'd you choose me for?"
Don't ever wonder
Cause you deserve the best
Once you reach the top
You'll never question why you left
My world is yours
What you waitin' for?
Let's run away
Let's run away
Our friends, say we're crazy
But we can't listen baby
They've never had it like this
They don't know what it is
[Hook: John Legend and Teyana Taylor]


[Produced by TNGHT, Kanye West, Mike Dean, Arca, Carlos "6 July" Broady, and 88 Keys]
[Intro: Nina Simone]
Strange fruit hangin' from the poplar trees
Blood on the leaves
[Verse 1]
I just need to clear my mind now
It's been racin' since the summertime
Now I'm holdin' down the summer now
And all I want is what I can't buy now
Cause I ain't got the money on me right now
And I told you to wait
Yeah I told you to wait
So I'mma need a little more time now
Cause I ain't got the money on me right now
And I thought you could wait
Yeah, I thought you could wait
These bitches surroundin' me
All want something out me
Then they talk about me
Would be lost without me
We could've been somebody
Thought you'd be different 'bout it
Now I know you not it
So let's get on with it
[Verse 2]
We could've been somebody
'stead you had to tell somebody
Let's take it back to the first party
When you tried your first molly
And came out of your body
And came out of your body
Running naked down the lobby
And you was screamin' that you love me
Before the limelight tore ya
Before the limelight stole ya
Remember we were so young
When I would hold you
Before the blood on the leaves
I know there ain't wrong with me
Something strange is happenin'
[Verse 3]
You could've been somebody
We could've ugh, we could've been somebody
Or was it on the first party
When we tried our first molly
And came out of our body
And came out of our body
Before they call lawyers
Before you tried to destroy us
How you gon' lie to the lawyer?
It's like I don't even know ya
I gotta bring it back to the 'nolia
[Bridge]
Fuck them other niggas cause I'm down with my niggas
Fuck them other niggas cause I'm down with my niggas
Fuck them other niggas cause I'm down with my niggas
I ride with my niggas, I'd die for my...
[Verse 4]
To all my second string bitches, try and get a baby
Trying to get a baby, now you talkin' crazy
I don't give a damn if you used to talk to Jay Z
He ain't with you, he with Beyoncé, you need to stop actin' lazy
She Instagram herself like #BadBitchAlert
He Instagram his watch like #MadRichAlert
He only wanna see that ass in reverse
Two-thousand-dollar bag with no cash in your purse
Now you sittin' courtside, wifey on the other side
Gotta keep 'em separated, I call that apartheid
Then she said she impregnated, that's the night your heart died
Then you gotta go and tell your girl and report that
Main reason cause your pastor said you can't abort that
Now your driver say that new Benz you can't afford that
All that cocaine on the table you can't snort that
That goin' to that owin' money that the court got
All in on that alimony, uh,
 
yeah-yeah, she got you homie
'til death but do your part, unholy matrimony
[Outro]
That summer night holdin' long and long, 'din long
Now waiting for the summer rose and (breathe)
And breathe and breathe
And breathe and breathe
And breathe and breathe
And live and learn
And live and learn
And livin' and livin' like I’m lonely
Lonely, lonely
And livin' all I have
And livin' all
And live
And live


And all the crazy shit I did, that'll make the best memories
Seems my old friends always make the best enemies
Can't make ends, without making bills
And you can't ask fake niggas to keep it real
Baby, I can't, I can't, I can't, argue no more
When the only thing deep about you is your throat
Why you always rock the boat?
I swear you harder to read than a doctor's note
I put my demons on the page
And put my passion on the stage
Crashing on the websites, spazzing on the websites
Driving on the wrong side, crash into the waves
Surfs up, tide's low, so you can see the stakes, drive slow
You in the presence of, ghetto royalty
Do what the fuck we want, and pay the lawyer fees
I'm in Paris driving in the same lane
Where Princess Diana was killed by the damn fame
The lonely king, who's only flaw is
Looking for somebody that's flawless
No fairy tale, no ending to the story book
This could very well be the same road that glory took
Or Maria Antoinette, the fall of the wrong
The ghost of the foreign king is calling me home


{*The song starts with Jay-Z - Izzo (H.O.V.A.)*}
Ladies and gentlemen let's put our hands together for the astonishing
H to the izz-O, V to the izz-A
[Jay-Z]
Welcome ladies and gentlemen to the 8th wonder of the world
The flow of the century, oh it's timeless, HOV'!
Thanks for comin' out tonight
You could've been anywhere in the world, but you're here with me
I appreciate that, uhhd
*The song changes to: The Jackson Five - I Want You back*
*The song changes to: The Doors - Five to One*
[Kanye West talking]
Yo this song right here, I remember I used to play
This sample for people before I hooked up
And I used to tell people "you know, this, this gon' be like The Truth
But it's gon' better than The Truth",
 and to all my niggas, my nigga ??? said:
"I mean ask these but it ain't no Truth, that ain't no Truth right there!"
And he was all like, the Takeover
[Jim Morrison]
Five to one, baby, one in five
No one here, gets, out alive, now
You'll get yours, baby, I'll get mine
Gonna make it, baby, if we try
The old get old, and the young get stronger
May take a week, and it may take longer
They got the guns, but we got the numbers
Gonna win, yeah we're, takin' over
Come on!
*The song changes to: Jay-Z - Takeover*
[Jay-Z]
R.O.C., we runnin' this rap shit
Memphis Bleek, we runnin' this rap shit
B. Mac, we runnin' this rap shit
Freeway, we runnin' this rap shit
O and Sparks, we runnin' this rap shit
Chris and Neef, we runnin' this rap shit
The takeover, the break's over nigga
God MC, me, Jay-Hova
Hey lil' soldier you ain't ready for war
R.O.C.'s too strong for y'all
[Kanye West]
Acrite nigga!
*The song changes to: Jay-Z - Heart of the City (Ain't no Love)*
[Jay-Z]
Uh, uh, listen
First the Fat Boys break up, now every day I wake up
Somebody got a problem with Hov'
What's up y'all niggas all fed up cause I got a little cheddar
And my records movin' out the store
*The song changes to: Bobby "Blue" Bland - Ain't no Love in the Heart of the City*
[Bobby "Blue" Bland]
Ain't no love, in the heart of the city
Ain't no love, in the heart of town
Ain't no love..
*The song changes to: David Ruffin - Common Man*
[David Ruffin]
Yeeehh
*The song changes to: Jay-Z - Never Change*
[Jay-Z (David Ruffin)]
(Never, never, never, never change)
I never change, this is Jay every day
(I never change!)
I never change, this is Jay every day
(I never change!)
I never change, this is Jay


Last time I got here, before I even arrived, they had ‘fuck Kanye’ on the motherfuckin’ port-a-potties.
 
But this year, we gon’ piss on ‘em, on they motherfuckin’ port-a-potties.
How many of y'all don't give a fuck about what the press say?
 
It's 2014. College Dropout came out 2004.
 
I want y'all to know, every time I go to the studio, every time I do an interview, every time I make a motherfuckin' t-shirt, the thing I do, I give it everything I got. And when I talk that shit, it's so that you can talk that shit. If you a fan of me, you a fan of your motherfuckin' self.
 You can do something that'll change the world. 
Look at how they try to make me look. They try to make me look crazy.
 
And the people that write that? I don't see them performing
 for 
90,000 motherfuckers
 … 
I know you seen movies and shit. Jimi Hendrix. John Lennon. Jim Morrison. I know y'all seen movies and shit. But y'all livin' a movie right motherfucking now.
 
Because I AM THE NUMBER ONE MOTHERFUCKING ROCK STAR ON THE PLANET.
You know, I had a meeting with Oprah Winfrey. She wanted to give me some advice. What she told me was that the corporations are scared of me.
 I'm like, 
'Little ol' me?! Why you scared of me?!
 
Because I tell the kids the truth?! Why y'all scared of me?!' Why they so scared of me? … Little ol' me?' Because I want peoples' minds to finally be free.
 What's the new cool? What's the new cool? Can you tell me what's the new cool? Because I want to hide behind that. I need some new barricade to hide behind. 
I need a new cool. What's the new shit out? What's the new shit out with the most commercials at the Super Bowl? Let's just stop the music and play a Bruno Mars song right now, how about that?
 
They told me I would never play at the Super Bowl. They told me I could never play at the Super Bowl. Not until I'm super old. Not until I'm super old … They told me I would never play at the Super Bowl. They told me I would never play at the Super Bowl, at least not until I'm super old.
 
So I think it's time—hold up, f—k that toast.
But I promise y'all tonight, as I stand here, 37-years-old, this is only the beginning. This is only the beginning … Because in all honesty, I'm not gonna lie to y'all right now, this might not come off as humble, but I'm gonna tell y'all the truth. I ain't concerned about nobody that's actually living. 
I know people get mad at me when I compare myself, but that's the only way I can explain what my aspirations are.
 
When I'm talkin' 'bout Walt Disney, when I'm talkin' 'bout Howard Hughes, when I'm talkin' 'bout Henry Ford
, when I'm talkin' 'bout Beethoven, when I talk about Mozart, when I talk about Shakespeare, and they all had their time on this earth. And I'm only 37. 
And right now I'm rockin' to 90,000, of y'all motherfuckers right now.
 So I ain't goin' at anybody on the radio. I'm goin' after Shakespeare. I'm goin' after Walt Disney. I'm going after Howard Hughes. I'm going after David Stern. I'm goin' after Henry Ford. 
I'm going after Elon Musk. Okay, he is living, but he's my boy.
 Whether you believe it or not … you can only achieve as high as you believe. You can only achieve as high as you believe … 
And just like Martin had a dream, and just like Kendrick had a dream.
 I believe in everything. I believe in anything. You can only believe … I can only stand here when I been fucked up so many times. Fucked up so many times … 
And I know that I ain't perfect. But everything I'm not makes me everything I am.
I came to Bonnaroo six months after my mom passed. Pearl Jam went on three hours long. I did the Glow In The Dark show here. My shit was going on when the motherfuckin' daylight was comin' on. They said I was runnin' late. They blared my motherfuckin' tanks, my cryo, my pyro, they wrote 'FUCK KANYE' on that shit. Y'all wrote that shit in the press. WHERE THE PRESS AT? Y'all gonna write all these motherfuckers puttin' they hands up right now? 
WHERE THE PRESS AT? WHERE THE PRESS AT? WHERE THE PRESS AT?
 Man, I'll run that shit. This is real rock n' roll. If you ever grew up on real music, the reason why you write that shit about music? I'm from the South Side of Chicago. I dreamed of R. Kelly giving me a deal.
Somebody told me that everybody on the plane was coming out here to Bonnaroo, to come check me out, and you know, 
it humbled me. It humbled me
, and at the same time gave me confidence. It gave me a quiet confidence, a steel confidence, a feeling that it was actually gonna happen, a feeling that it was God's plan. God's plan. God's plan, something I could never understand, understand, understand, it's all in God's plan. God's plan. God's plan. God's plan … So whether you believe it or not … the fact that there are so many people here tonight, it humbles me. 
It humbles me—but not in the Webster's definition of humility.
 It humbles me in a way that gives me strength, to know that it's in God's plan. And I know I set my goals very high.


(Ad libs)
Yo Hip-Hop, Is niggas still talkin bout I can't rap, come on now
Look for me Young K
Took 2Pac beat and got paid
My favorite rapper is Makaveli, Nas and Jay-Z
Eminem, Mase, Biggie Smalls and me
Now if you was my girlfriend you don't need no guyfriend
He could get his head bust nigga ain't my friend
Why the hell you lying who the hell you trying
Who the hell you know that threw away his throwbacks
When they suggested they was made by Majestic
My Answers cost three-hundred-fifty ya naw mean
Doesn't even have got her number we ain't on the same team
You got the hat the jacket shoelaces to match
I got the gat ratching new cases to catch
I got my business manager erasing my debt
I mean my credit was so pathetic I couldn't get a debit
I fill out for a car but shit they always debt it
My girl come over try to help me shine
How you gonna help me get a car your credit worser than mine
But everytime I get a check you be first up in line
Told you bout gold-diggin bitch it's worser than lying
You better grow up before I blow up
Have weed rolled up when I show up
Matter fact we broke as fuck
Ain't nothing left to do except get tore up from the floor up
Shit that's how I knew you was my girlfriend
So I promise to never pick up smutts
In my Cadillac pick-up truck
They need to get they sit-ups up
They always be colder than you
A little richer a little thicker a litter older than you
Probably a little smarter so they can drop me some jewels
That I could drop back to you to get your ass back in college
So you can be where they at two years from now
But for now bartender two beers for now
The second one is for my girlfriend
[Jay-Z] All I need in this life of sin is me and my girlfriend me and my girlfriend
[B.K.] Down to ride til the very end is me and my boyfriend me and my boyfriend
I'm talkin bout when we was in Nissan's no Benz or such
We wasn't from Switzerland but we'll still go Dutch
Greater man could prob picture like there go us
No styles just good times like they're so nuts
We always thought if we had dough we could do so much
Like you ain't got to save the roach we can finish the Dutch
Like we ain't have to go coach told you i'll be paid soon
We ain't got to sit in this emergency aisle just to get leg room
We ain't got to go back to my room there's only one bedroom
That I call my lair
We was V.I.P. Very Imaginary Playaz
But you was my girlfriend yea yea yea you was my girlfriend
[Jay-Z] Holla, All I need in this world of sin is me and my girlfriend me and my girlfriend
[B.K.] Down to ride til the very end is me and my boyfriend me and my boyfriend
That's Right (Kanye)
[Jay-Z] All I need in this world of sin is me and my girlfriend me and my girlfriend
Look for me
[B.K.] Down to ride til the very end is me and my boyfriend me and my boyfriend
[Jay-Z] Yep!


[Hook: Charlie Wilson]
I know you're tired of loving, of loving
With nobody to love, nobody, nobody (Uh-huh, honey)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
What you doing in the club on a Thursday?
She say she only here for her girl birthday
They ordered champagne but still look thirsty
Rock Forever 21 but just turned thirty
I know I got a bad reputation
Walking 'round, always mad reputation
Leave a pretty girl sad reputation
Start a Fight Club, Brad reputation
I turnt the nightclub out of the basement
I'll turn the plane 'round, your ass keep complaining
How you gon' be mad on vacation?
Dutty wining 'round all these Jamaicans
Uh, this that prom shit
This that what we do, don't tell your mom shit
This that red cup, all on the lawn shit
Got a fresh cut, straight out the salon, bitch
[Hook: Charlie Wilson]
I know you're tired of loving, of loving
With nobody to love, nobody, nobody (Uh-huh, honey)
[Bridge: Kanye West]
Close your eyes and let the word paint a thousand pictures
One good girl is worth a thousand bitches
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I wanna fuck you hard on the sink
After that, give you something to drink
Step back, can't get spunk on the mink
I mean damn, what would Jeromey Romey Romey Rome think?
Hey, you remember where we first met?
Okay, I don't remember where we first met
But hey, admitting is the first step
And hey, you know ain't nobody perfect
And I know, with the hoes I got the worst rep
But hey, their backstroke I'm tryna perfect
And hey, ayo, we made it, Thanksgiving
So hey, maybe we can make it to Christmas
She asked me what I wished for on the wishlist
Have you ever asked your bitch for other bitches?
Maybe we could still make it to the church steps
But first, you gon' remember how to forget
After all these long-ass verses
I'm tired, you tired, Jesus wept
[Outro: Charlie Wilson]
I know you're tired of loving, of loving
No hiding your love, no hiding, no hiding
Just grab somebody, no leaving this party
With nobody to love, nobody, nobody


[Produced by Kanye West and Che Pope with additional production from Eric Danchild, Noah Goldstein, No ID and Mike Dean]
[Video directed by Nick Knight]
[Hook]
Bound to fall in love
Bound to fall in love
(Uh-huh, honey)
[Bridge: Kanye West]
All them other niggas lame, and you know it now
When a real nigga hold you down, you supposed to drown
Bound...
[Hook]
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
What you doin' in the club on a Thursday?
She say she only here for her girl birthday
They ordered champagne but still look thirsty
Rock Forever 21 but just turned thirty
I know I got a bad reputation
Walking-round-always-mad reputation
Leave-a-pretty-girl-sad reputation
Start a Fight Club, Brad reputation
I turnt the nightclub out of the basement
I'll turn the plane 'round, your ass keep complainin'
How you gon' be mad on vacation?
Dutty wining 'round all these Jamaicans
Uh, this that prom shit
This that what-we-do-don't-tell-your-mom shit
This that red-cup-all-on-the-lawn shit
Got a fresh cut, straight out the salon, bitch
[Bridge: Charlie Wilson]
I know you're tired of lovin', of lovin'
With nobody to love, nobody, nobody (Uh-huh, honey)
[Bridge: Kanye West]
Close your eyes and let the word paint a thousand pictures
One good girl is worth a thousand bitches
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I wanna fuck you hard on the sink
After that, give you somethin' to drink
Step back, can't get spunk on the mink
I mean damn, what would Jeromey Romey Romey Rome think?
Hey, you remember where we first met?
Okay, I don't remember where we first met
But hey, admittin' is the first step
And hey, you know ain't nobody perfect
And I know, with the hoes I got the worst rep
But hey, their backstroke I'm tryna perfect
And hey, ayo, we made it: Thanksgivin'
So hey, maybe we can make it to Christmas
She asked me what I wished for on my wishlist
Have you ever asked your bitch for other bitches?
Maybe we could still make it to the church steps
But first, you gon' remember how to forget
After all these long-ass verses
I'm tired, you tired, Jesus wept
[Bridge: Charlie Wilson]
I know you're tired of lovin', of lovin'
With nobody to love, nobody, nobody
Just grab somebody, no leavin' this party
With nobody to love, nobody, nobody (Uh-huh, honey)
[Bridge: Kanye West]
Jerome's in the house, watch your mouth
Jerome's in the house, watch your mouth
[Hook]


[Intro]
Brand new, brand new, brand new, brand new, brand new
[Hook: Rhymefest & Kanye]
I don't like it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it, get off my (brand new) dick, nigga
(Repeat x2)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
They say your attitude determines your latitude
I'm high as a motherfucker, fly as a motherfucker
And still the motherfucker you love to hate
But can't, because you love what I make
Now ain't that about a bitch
And I'mma talk shit until I'm out of hits
They don't want to turn they speakers up, they claim I ain't deep enough
All that talkin' I feed off of, keep it up
I'm relaxin', my feet is up
I'm leavin' you haters like when Shaq left the Lakers just to Heat it up
I state the stats to stunt, I don't need to front
Make black history every day, I don't need a month
The survey says, by the streets according
Kanye's just important as Michael Jordan
Was to the NBA when he was scorin'
Ralph Lauren was borin' before I wore him and
[Hook: Kanye West & Rhymefest]
[Verse 2: Rhymefest]
Now some women hit the mall and some shop at the thrift store
Some of 'em mix and match to make it look like they get more
Some of y'all know you wear a sixteen, squeezin' into a six
Damn, what you make them jeans rip for?
I guess she's lookin' for a (brand new) man who
Ain't always gotta sit down cause he can't stand you
Boo, this the (brand new) jam to dance to
While you givin' me head like shampoo, come as you came
Skip the (brand) name, I won't (brand) you
What you do here stay here like Cancun
Besides your breasts is augmented, I like things authentic
Look at all my whips, they're all vintage
I got a loft with a view of the sea
See I take some old shit and make it (new) for me
Pimp it out like Xzibit to the (oomph) degree
Why spend and arm and a leg, we can kick it for free you see
[Hook: Rhymefest & Kanye]
[Verse 3: Rhymefest]
Now 
Che
 
bustin' and then hit 'em, fuck the cynicism
I'm quick to give y'all niggas constructive criticism
Like "Wait, you basically suck,"
 
his mother said "My son wanna rhyme!"
I'm like Ma'am, I don't agree with that decision
Nothin' against him, but if he step I gotta diss him
I listen to that weak shit, all of it, I can't follow it
(vomit) Excuse me, 
I'm wack-tose intolerant
"I worked too hard to get my baby baller kit!"
Nine to fives, had me 
blue collar
 poppin' it
Now I'm in the club, and look who I get it poppin' with
Me and 'Ye 
go back like crew cuts
He hook me up, as long as I don't ask him for too much
But even he know 'Fest is layin' it down
Cause this is just an old beat he had layin' around
[Hook: Kanye & Rhymefest]


YO!
[Verse 1]
Good evening ladies and gents, close and distant fam
Let me break it down for ya'll exactly who I am...(CAV)
That brotha straight off of Myrtle Ave
That dude that make the other dude say that's my man, (CAV)
It ain't nuttin' I want I can't have
The haters know it's real and that's why they mad
They struggle so hard while I just lay back
They sound under pressure, sweaty and straight wack
I rock like this because I ain't that, (CAV)
Tell the players I'm taking the game back...
Matta fact tell the coaches, the GMs, and owners
Shut down the stadiums, it's over
I make the cat's in the back draw closer
Get the comp choked up like white folks on Oprah
Yeah you dope, but (CAV) it's more doper
More skill, more style, and more focus
I hit the lab with good shit to smoke up
And tell the sound man where I wanna go from
Blow up, skit sheet across the notepad
School em' all from the drop out to post grads
What history book you do or don't have
There's only two eras of rap, pre and post CAV
Now you know that
Stop the train, there's no place for the game left to go at
[Hook]
Cavee is my name but you can call me, (CAV)
It's all the same abbreviated or whole
Shout it out so it don't be a secret to folk it go, (CAV)
Short for Cavee but I'm not from Cali
I'm from the rotten apple, dirty streets and alleys
Bed-Stuy Brooklyn doin' it exactly, Get at me!!!
[Verse 2]
Holla!!...Like Missy and Ja Rule
Ain't a crowd in the world that CAV cannot move
Hot dude, cats was thinkin' it's not true
But come front row at the show, I got proof
I went from sellin' candy in junior high school
To servin' spoony g for the fiends to gnaw to
Got sent upstate on bus, (Not cool)
In the yard thinkin' damn should've listen to ma duke
Come home in 99, what the fuck I'm gonna do
I won't move bundles, I got a new hustle
I quit pie baking, started rhyme makin
Buildin' up my rep to be one of the five greatest
And I ain't saying CAV the best nigga out there
But until he appear, I'm sittin' in his chair
And I'mma need a few moments just to get in ya'll ear
To make you forget that dude was ever even here
I got two words for the world: Be prepared
I got three words for your girl: Don't be scared!
And when they ask where the real hip-hop, IT'S OVER HERE!
And when they ask where Brooklyn at, HOLD YA EARS!
It's like YEAH! Chris Antione Vashon
Capricorn hit em' off with the classic bong and then I'm gone...
Ridin' back to Brook-Lan... boyeeeeee


[Hook]
Surely you'll break my heart but I'll be there beside you
(She said "Don't break my heart")
Surely you'll break my heart but I'll be there beside you
(She said "Don't break my heart")
Surely you'll break my heart but I'll be there beside you
With lots of love to give
(Love to give...you, you)
Love to give
Love to give
[Verse One]
It was a dream day, met her on spring break
Look like the type that be like "No hable inglés"
She said you look like you rap, where's your bling'e?
And yours clothes is tight but you don't seem gay
I said naw, thats dude from NSYNC'e
She wasn't married, kept her ring on her pinky
She said "You know I dont be datin' rappers"
I said I got my SAG card, baby I'm an actor
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Seen her again at All Star weekend, she ain't have tickets
And she ain't into hoopers, she was there to kick it
With her roommate who was a video vixen
Spend so much on outfits she's about to get evicted
Said "I'm married to this rap shit, looking for a mistress"
You can be by my side like 
Flavor and Delicious
Long as you ain't scared of the kitchen and the dishes
She said "you one of them fishes, I know your mind switches", and
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Time revolve
, 
we fell in love as crazy as Nas
And them broads was textin cuz I stop calling them
I met the parents, watch the game with her father and
Questions of marriage and I start dodging them
What happen to me happens to lots of men
Get deep in love and then your needing some oxygen
As far as wives I was thinking like Solomon
She said "there you go, breakin my heart again!"
[Hook]
[Interlude]
[Hook]


[Hook: Ludacris]
Yeah, breathe in, breathe out
If ya iced up, pull ya sleeves out
Push a big truck, pull ya keys out
Girls go wild and pull ya deez out
Breathe in, breathe out
Let them hoes fight, pull her weave out
If a nigga act up, pull a Desert E's out
When I pull the piece out niggas like "Peace out!"
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Golly, more of that bullshit ice rap
I got to 'pologize to Mos and Kweli (probably)
But is it cool to rap about gold
If I told the world I copped it from Ghana and Mali? (Mali!)
First nigga with a Benz and a backpack
Ice chain,
 
Carti
 
lens, and a knapsack
Always said if I rapped I'd say somethin' significant
But now I'm rappin' 'bout money, hoes, and rims again
And it's still about the Benjamins
Big faced hundreds and whatever other synonyms
Strippers named Cinnamon
More chips than Pentium
What'cha gon' buy next? Whatever new trend it is
I'm tryin' to spend my stacks
And I'm so broke I look back like "Damn, was I on crack?"
I mean twelve platinum chains, was I on that?
What the hell was wrong with me dog?
Sing along with me y'all
[Hook: Ludacris]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Now even though I went to college and dropped out of school quick
I always had a Ph.D.: a Pretty Huge Dick
Ladies tired of gettin' ripped off by guys like this
And givin' head is like a whale that's usin' a toothpick
Well, I'm in the club for a limited time
Act now and get some action for $free.99
Later on I might charge for menage
Heard her man was the boss of the floss
But she still want to toss me the drawers
And it ain't gon' cost me because she my caddy
Cuz she grabbed my golf balls in the club
And I'm still actin' calm than a mug
She asked "Can you drive me in the hundreds where my Altima was?"
While we drive she tellin' me 'bout problems with her man
Baby I fully understand
Let me help you with a plan
While he trickin' off, don't get no rich nigga
Give ME some head, that'll really piss him off
[Hook: Ludacris]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I blow past low class niggas with no cash
In the four dot six, bitch you can go ask
So when I go fast popo just laugh
Right until I run out of gas or 'til I go crash
Whatever comes first I'm prepared for the worst
Whatever comes second I'll be there with my weapon
Pullin' up in the Lexuses/'lexeses, one on both hand
So I guess them GSes was ambidextrous
Coulda sworn her breasteses was sendin' me messages
"K I need a free hand mammogram
I got weed, drink, and a Handicam
All of which is legal in Amsterdam
"
So say my name like Candyman
And I'mma come and fix you up like the handyman
But if you don't need a fix, girl you gotta leave
You can't take that all at one time ya gotta breathe
[Hook: Ludacris]
[Outro]


: For me, right now I’m able to talk and be here and live in LA and have a living and 
get engaged to my girl
 because I’m a successful musician currently. But if I were to write my title, like, going through the airport you have to put down what you do, I would literally write 'Creative Genius', except for two reasons. 
Sometimes it takes too long to write that, and sometimes I spell the word “genius” wrong.


[Produced by Kanye West and Jon Brion]
[Hook: Brandy]
I always knew that one day, they'd try to bring me down
Way down, way down
One day, they'd tried to bring me down
Always knew that one day, they'd try to bring me down
Way down, they'd try to bring me down
[Verse: Kanye West]
We gon' to Mass today, we have to pray
Besides what the pastor say, I have to say
Since Pac passed away
Most you rappers don't even deserve a track from me
You see, if you ever wanted to ever be anything
There'd always be somebody that shoot down any dream
There'll always be haters, that's the way it is
Hater niggas marry hater bitches and have hater kids
But they gon' have to take my life 'fore they take my drive
Cause when I was barely livin', that's what kept me alive
Just the thought that maybe it could be better than what we at at this time
Make it out of this grind, 'fore I'm out of my mind
And get some leeway on the he say she say
Your girl don't like me, how long has she been gay?
Spanish girls say "Yo, no hablo inglés"
And everybody want to run to me for their single
It's funny how these wack niggas need my help
Wasn't around when I couldn't feed myself
Dawg, if I was you, I wouldn't feel myself
Dawg, if I was you, I'd kill myself
Made a mil' myself and I'm still myself
And I'mma look in the mirror if I need some help
Now I'll speak from the heart, y'all all frontin'
Everybody feel a way about K but at least y'all feel something
[Bridge: Brandy]
Why'd you call then?
I bet only for getting what some guilt would get you
What kind of dream we found?
See, I'm often at your cross-ways
Forgetting where the hell I met you
And try to bring me down
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West & Plain Pat]
[Intro: Santigold]
Brooklyn we go hard, we go hard
[
Verse 1: Jay-Z]
This is black hoodie rap
There's no fear in my eyes where they lookin' at
Better look on map,
 besides, 
me nah like to eye fight
Me nah think such a ting is worth a man's life
 (Christ!)
But if a man test my Stuy
I promise he won't like my reply
Boom bye bye
 
like Buju I'm crucial
I'm a Brooklyn boy I may take some gettin' use to
Chain snatchin', ain't have it, gotta get it
Same shitted
, 
from Brownsville to Bainbrid-idge
Fatherless child, mama pulled double shifts
So the number runners was the only one I hanged widith
Before you know it I'm in the game, bang fidith
Fear no orangutans
, 
pe-deal cid-daps
Like oranges-es, I'm dangerous
Please, tell me what the name of this shit
[Hook]
Brooklyn we go hard, we go hard
(B-R-O-O-K-L-Y-N,
 come again)
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
I father, I Brooklyn Dodger them
I jack, I rob, I sin
Aww man, I'm Jackie Robinson
'Cept when I run base, I dodge the pen
Lucky me, luckily, they didn't get me
Now when I bring the Nets, I'm the black Branch Rickey
From Brooklyn corners
, 
burnin' branches of sticky
Spread love, Biggie, Brooklyn, hippie
I pity the fool with jewels like Mr. T
With no history in my borough, they borrow
With no intentions of returnin', tomorrow
The sun don't come out for many
, 
like Annie
Half orphan, mama never had an abortion
Papa sort of did, still I managed to live
I go hard, I owe it all to the crib
Now please tell me, what the fuck's harder than this?
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Santigold]
While I'm doin' my time due to circumstance
Cross that bridge, face the consequence
Once bid 10 now I paid my dues
Risk takers we break the rules
Get so dark, but I see good
Bed-Stuy stay high in my neck of the woods
Now, let it ring out, it's a warning
(Brooklyn) Let it be sworn in
Gotta make it stick workin' like we blue collar
Rip it to the core, underneath it all we harder
Right into the clip, bring it to the floor
One step, one step, give it up more
The road is rough and the street's a mess
Got big cash dreams and a sick death wish
Robbin' out the commercial stash
Kill the voice screamin' in my head
[Hook]


Nam Myoho Renge Kyo...
[Hook: repeat 2X]
Trina: YO! I want my ass smacked
Ludacris: Legs wide
Trina: F
ront back
Ludacris: Side
 to Side
Trina: Pussy wet
Ludacris: 
Slip-N-Slide
Yup everything gon' be al-right
[Trina]
Wait bitch I'mma blow my kisses
Get pissed and throw my dishes
Y'all niggas know just who this is
(WHOOP WHOOP!)
And the head so vicious
With me this shit gon' cost
You short then that's your loss
You know this ass is soft
Make a nigga go to breaking off
Tell me that you love me baby
And get high and fuck me crazy
Get a towel and wipe me off
You want a bitch with no type of flaws
My girls be shopping hard
These hoes be buying cars
In the club buying bars
Nipples hard in designer bras
All my niggas who getting cheese
Throwback and the crispy G's
Moet, Cris on freeze
Laugh at a tab cuz this on me
Me and Luda in a cut supreme
Doing things just to touch the creme
So many names wanna fuck the Queen
I live a life like its just a dream
UH!
[Hook]
[Ludacris]
Hit it right behind JUMP!
Give me the beat then I'mma make it bump
Tell me what you wanna hear damn yes it can
Trouble with your man I'mma pop my trunk
You ain't seen no chicks like mine
You ain't seen no flicks like mine
Gonna make you (UGH!) next to the subwoofers in my 6 by 9
Tell me that you like it raw
Tell me that my dick is WAAH!
I might make you famous and buy you watches by 
Maurice Lacroix
Tell me if it's new or old
Tell me if its hot or cold
Let me know if it's black and bold
Say Ludacris 6 million sold
See I ain't got no time for games
And I ain't got no time for lames
How you loving my Southern slang....
OOH-EE-WALLA-WALLA-BING-BANG
So anytime you need me call
Winter summer spring or fall
It doesn't matter come one come all
Either get dropped or drop them drawls
[Hook]
[Trina]
Diamond - Princess
Just mind your business
These rumors are senseless
Your whispers are endless
We living ghetto fab
We spending hella cash
This girl is hella bad
Your choice is trailer trash
Too much taste for whores
You saw me grace The Source
You watched me work the Vibe
Bitches I works for mine
One time for these divas
Two times for these Visa's
Third time I come I'm breezing
The ice just keeps on freezing
Hold up I'mma keep it going
Back to back I'mma keep on blowing
Platinum plaques keeping it hood
Wet sex keeping it good
Look girl you don't know my angle
A hundred thou on a platinum bangle
My niggas will slow your roll
Pussy power we in control
[Hook]
[Trina]
YO! That's right I'm back again
Round two motherfuckers that's right
I'm talking greasy
I'mma arrogant lil' motherfucker huh?
That's right I'm rich I'm that bitch (That's right)
I'm bout to show y'all how to pimp this shit
I'm fucking niggas in the face
The game is mine 2003 fuck that
Fuck all y'all haters fuck all y'all bitches, get a life
You got too much times on your hands
I want y'all bitches to get a job
Up your game pimp your game up baby
It's all about me this time fuck that
Fuck a dime I'mma silver dolla- HOLLA!
Catch me when I come off tour fuck y'all
I'm out


[Intro]
And If you've ever been in love I wanna hear you sing it as loud as you can, sing
[Hook]
Suddenly I'm not afraid to try and love someone
Suddenly I feel like now my heart can open up
And suddenly I'm thinkin' maybe you could be the one
Finally I think it might be right to fall in love
So fly on, fly high, come on Cupid hit a bulls-eye
Please don't let me down this time
I think I finally found that guy
So fly on, fly high, come on Cupid hit a bulls-eye
Please don't let me down this time
Cupid, I think I'm ready, ready to fall in love
[Verse 1]
I've been up and down so many times in love
And through it all, still I think I've never really known true love
But this time it could very well be a possibility
Finally, hopefully, you won't let me down this time
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
He could be the man of my eternity, but I don't know
If the future has him here with me, but I do know
That the way he makes me feel is so lovely
Mentally, Spiritually, he completes me, Cupid please come closer to me
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Common]
We should be able to love the way that warriors love
No fear, though we both went through pain like the story of thugs
And cold year was '03, you got to know you I got to know me
Now we can both go free
And fly higher that the Sears Tower
Everybody got baggage though we cleared ours
No more tear showers, I'm in your ear hours
Singing in unison with Luther Howard, love there's flower
And now it takes a lot for me to get aroused
Gotta be more that what's in them jeans and in the blouse
Queen, you're more than a face that's in a crowd
From Chicago so you know I'm tracing ya style
I stay in the clouds and love pure the way of a child
Maybe one day we'll be patient, the [?] saying our vows
Now Cupid's shooting, taking a bow
You never knew love, we making it now
[Hook]


[Intro - T-Pain & (Kanye West)]
Shawty Snap (Yeah)
Ooooh Oooh (Yeah)
Snap Ya Fingers
Do Ya Step
You Can Do It All By Yourself
(Plain Pat, what up?)
[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
Excuse me but this verse
Has not been Russell Simmons approved uh-uh
You won't see it on Run's house uh-uh
You won't see it at a nun's house
My New York nigga said he heard it at son's house
Talkin' 'bout how this ho is poor as my low is
Baby is my Lois
, maybe I'm just bogus
Cause she don't wan't you to buy her a drank
Swizz said she ain't got no money in the bank
And she be standin' there, cause it's cameras
Tryin' to show yo legs off, you ain't Amerie
If I fall in love, a girl gon' live on rodeo
Until that day-o, she take the monorail
And I don't want no girl that will answer to "ayo"
Make it more harder, make me put some work in
You get to flirtin', play her just perfect
Fuck a drank, I'mma buy tha bar if ya worth it
[Verse 2 - T-Pain]
Baby girl, what's your name?
Let me talk to you, let me buy you A drink
I'm T-Pain, You Know Me
Konvict Music, Nappy Boy, Ooh Wee
I Know The Club Close At 3
Whats The Chance of You Rollin Wit Me
Back To The Crib, show you how I live
Lets Get Drunk Forget What We Did
[Hook - T-Pain]
I'mma buy you a drank
Then i'mma take you home with me
I got money in the bank
Shawty what'chu think 'bout that
I'll be in the grey Cadillac
We in the bed like
Ooh ooh ohh, ooh ooh
We in the bed like
Ooh ooh ohh, ooh ooh
[Verse 3 - T-Pain]
Talk to me, I talk back
Lets talk money, I talk that
Crunk Juice Bombs, Oakley Shades
Shawty got class, oh behave
Lets get gone, walk it out (Walk it out)
Just like that, that's what I'm talkin' 'bout
We gone have fun, you gone see
On that Patron, you should get like me
[Hook - T-Pain]
[Bridge - T-Pain][x2]
Lets get gone
Walk it out
(Now walk it out think 'bout it, aaahhh snap!)
Now rock, rock, rock, rock
You can do it all by yo'self
[Hook - T-Pain]


[Talking]
Mafia niggas
Yeah, yeah
[Hook]
Oh ohh oh ohhhhhhhh ohhhhhh!
Let me call some, call some girls that I knowww, knowww
I don't mean the bougie ones from befohhh, 'fohhh
I need some girls that's really down to get lowww, lowwww
[Kanye - talking over Hook]
It's ya boy Kanye to The
The Roc is in the building right now
We smoked out
And I don't even talk like that
To the wall
[Verse One: Kanye West]
Now if my man Benzino got a Benz and they call him Benzino
When I get my Bentley they gon call me Bent-lino
Lot of shit changed since I hooked with Jay-Z yo
For the tracks I done got 800 C-notes
So glad I ain't take the drive to Home Depot
Right now my car and home would be repo'd
Fuckin with my girl today around three-oh
My man said let's call some girls that we know
Ohhhhhhhh!
Sometimes I wanna say fuck my bitch
But I don't want nobody to fuck my bitch
Even if a modelin chick sucked my dick
It wouldn't make me now feel so sick, just because
They came over to cheer me up
Smoked, drink, and yeah we fucked
No matter what they do it can't be enough
[Hook]
[Stat Quo - talking over Hook]
Wooo! Yeah! Haha.. Stat Quo nigga
Shady motherfuckin Aftermath, you understand me?
Uhh
[Verse Two: Stat Quo]
Looka here homes gettin my stunt on
I step in the bar I'm a superstar
They know who I are from the pimp description
Mack hoes just to get 'em in the doggy position
Put my key in yo ignition and work the kitten
Introduce you to how hustlers livin
Dick and bubblegum is all I'm givin
New whip, new year, new crib to sit in
I'll take ya bitch, make ya bitch make me rich
From major chips, but now you sick
How Stat Quo got dough to flow and 'dro to blow
Yak to sip and wigs to split
'Nuff grip won't slip, be easy
Your girlfriend wants to, please me
Make a porno, put her on TV
(Do a porno tape with that ho mayne)
Make that pussy drip drip when she see me
[Hook]
[Chamillionaire talking]
Yeah, yeah
You know what I told them cats?
Let me tell you what I told em
[Verse Three: Chamillionaire]
Go get a bigger scale
On a scale of one to six
I'm an 11, you're in heaven when I punish it
I got her naked but I know I wasn't gonna hit
She was lookin at it like that isn't gonna fit
I told her I was only gonna use half of it
If you want a smaller size go and rent a plastic dick
Why you actin like you a genital activist
Matter of fact you can get out, you can pack your shit
And she was like, "Ay, why you gotta act like this?"
Cus your wastin my time you can ask my wrist
Now you trying to talk to me about abstinance
She was like wait a second let me ask you this
Is you're name Chamillionaire, do you rap?
No
Ain't you on that song with Kanye West and Stat Quo?
Ron C says you was
Oh is that so?
And then I said if he did don't know what he told you that fo
[Hook]
[Chamillionaire talking]
Hold up
Make sure y'all look for my patna Stat Quo's upcoming solo album
Entitled "Statlanta"
On Crome-man Music with Shady Aftermath
Oh yeah man


[Intro]
Good evening ladies and gentlemen, I am the one and only Queen Bee
After me there will be none, but you could call me Miss White
Most people know me as, Lil Kim the head of the La Bella Mafia
Oh, shoutout to my girl Victoria Gotti and the whole family stay up
[Verse 1]
This time around I ain't takin no shit, this time around I never get bit
This time around I switched up my flow
Got rid of the pits and put rotts by the do'
This time around it ain't like befo'
This time around I'm gon' crack ya jo'
The feds is watchin me so I can't do much
Speak the wrong words bitch and you will get touched
I'm back on the scene my favorite color is green
I'm buildin a empire got a whole new team
Pimp game is strong, raps is just harder than they ever been
You can never win
Made my way through Hollywood fashion world adores me
Music's my first love a nine to five bores me
Love me or hate me Lil Kim come through
My fans across the world I came back for you
[Hook]
I came back for you
All incarcerated scarfaces gangstas with the fed cases
I came back for you, all my fans across the world holla at your girl
I came back for you
Everybody's waitin on me all these bitches hatin on me
I came back for you, the mink rockin Benz coppin keep the bottles poppin
[Verse 2]
It's the real hip hop mami check the facts
I'm sick of all you acts with your bubble gum raps
Like the sand in the hour glass you out of your time
Tried to go against the queen is you out of your mind?
Even be at number two, your chances is slim
Cause when God made Adam, he should've made Kim
I gave a few passes but I never forget
It's enough I got to put up with this Doo Doo Brown chick
Now you and you wanna come at me from all sides
I'm gettin money, 
don't think I just be lettin shit slide
I'm very concerned with fashion ain't my fault y'all don't know how ta
Rock this Hollyhood thang y'all need to let me style ya
Come back, to the light ma, I started the shit
How soon we forget I'm the heart of the shit
So keep your tacky ways and go back to your stripper days
As long as I'm around, you gon' bow down
[Hook]
I came back for you
All incarcerated scarfaces gangstas with the fed cases
I came back for you, all my fans across the world holla at your girl
I came back for you
Everybody's waitin on me all these bitches hatin on me
I came back for you, the mink rockin Benz coppin keep the bottles poppin
[Verse 3]
This time around either your in or your out
This time around you better watch your mouth
This time around you gon' hang or bang
This time around you better do your thang
Cause I'm the best that ever done it, the best that lived it
I ain't no overnight success goddamnit I was born with it
The Prada mama, the Dolce and Gabbana drippin
The Blue Hypnotic Martini Mimosa sippin
Y'all better team or get it together
Or you, you and her can get it whenever
Huh, I got a army y'all can't harm me
If the show was on the other foot you probably try to starve me
Don't get your life tooken I know I got you shooken
This Bed Stuy fly girl came back for Brooklyn


[Kanye West]
It’s like I wanna spit something written
But keep forgetting
So I guess it’s from the heart from the start
Played my part
Seemed like I just wasn’t reaching the charts
5000 hours, rewritting Power
Over and over
Some nights sober, 
some nights gone off the Henny as usual
So unusual to be in this position
Everything I say everybody tryna diss ‘em
Everybody playin him, truth be told
The last nigga ever let the truth be told
And oh Mos Def ran to my home
And said they gon have yo ass gone
Light jokes, you keep playin with them white folks
Can't even take the piss
They gon’ test your urine
Cut all the sponsorship for the touring!
“Where the Dark Fantasy tour at Ye?”
I dont know, ask, ask Hennesy (thats Coca-Cola)
Say ‘he ain't clean enough’
But rappers ain't mean enough?
Enough lashes like I ain't seen enough
On the real, 
this is like the neo-Emmitt Till
Whistling, get yo fuckin' ass killed
Lets keep this shit real!
Now who the realest
Everybody feel this
And everyday of my life, people try to tell me that I hate the whites
Cause I said what's right
I go to sleep and deal wit it every night
And wake up every morning
And walk to the liquor store or coffee store shop on the Mersa whats worser?
Its no verse that would reverse the-
In print or in cursive
They curse the name, or maybe call me Kane
Let's have a ‘toast for the douche bags’
Black people wanna talk about me on blogs
Cause I like clothes like, 'look at this fag'
Thats what I have to deal wit real shit
Yall dont even understand, what it take to be a real man
A black man interested in art, speaking from the heart and playin’ my part
And all this illuminati talk, like my first hit single wasn't ‘Jesus Walks’
For many years, these ain't rhymes these is muthaf-cking tears
They playin’ wit niggas careers
Felt like I’m the only real nigga here
From my last breath
They kicked me out the awards and my nigga Diddy left
Then they even sent Beyonce up to give the Award back
Didn’t even know I afford that
And she rode the wave as I rode the slave
As I felt like a slave as they try to put my shit up in the grave
Nigga behave, nigga behave
Be the first one
I bet ya no one else would ever say nuttin’ and stay frontin’
And get up and just perform, Shit is enormous
Shout out to Steve Stout, you know what this shit ’bout
My whole family, now I’m scared of Grammy’s
Cause everybody know that Dark Fantasy was the highest rated album in history
So I just avoided it, not to be exploited, not to be recorded
Cause I cannot afford it, I cannot afford more shit to be impor-ted
Uh, it’s too real for these niggas, you feel for these niggas
How I feel to be a black man, you say something wrong, nobody understand
Money, power, black, opinion, pick two, they would kill ya
[Mos Def]
No matter what goes on
They may not agree, they may not understand
But God got a plan, to put the mic in my hand
And his hand and that hand
And ideas, 
and all of theres
And the end, everybody up in here, in this atmosphere
So make it clear, 
live long and prosper
Much success, even if you wish me the opposite
To quote Nas,
 I stay on my job
Try to pray to keep my heart from going harm
And I ain't perfect, you know that from old me
My life is real even when I’m in the movies
I’m on the ave, I’m in the cave
I buried my Grandmother on Thursday, two weeks ago
My life is real, as it ever been
To all my friends and even foes
Each and every one of those, let em know
I shine a globe, even in the dark, stay smart
Stay sharp, as a harp played by a musician in this position
Feel blessed to make the whole World listen
And just glisten without even trying
Even when I die, I won't stay dead
And its straight off the head
, and its straight out the lungs
Looking fly, fresh, old man, so young
And I’m straight from the slums
And never been above so the ba-bum-ba-bum-bum-pum-pum…
This thing ups, let us all give some
Number one yo, I’m number none, no comparision
And make the whole world aware of it
Brooklyn in the building we take care of it
Peace out to all the Sagittarius
And happy birthday Pisces and Aries too
And this go out to all area crew
And if you come from the seven-eighteen then you just like me
From the present, and the past and the future and beyond
Me and Lupe and Kanye we play the song and get it on


[Produced by DJ Toomp and 
]
[Intro - Kanye (w/ Young Jeezy)]
La, la, la la 
(Yeah)
Wait 'til I get my money right
[Verse 1]
I had a dream I could buy my way to heaven
When I awoke, I spent that on a necklace
I told God I'd be back in a second
Man it's so hard not to act reckless
To whom much is given, much is tested
Get arrested guess until he get the message
I feel the pressure, under more scrutiny
And what I do, act more stupidly
Bought more jewelry,
 
more Louis V
My Momma couldn't get through to me
The drama, people suing me
I'm on TV talking like it's just you and me
I'm just saying how I feel man
I ain't one of the Cosby's, I ain't go to Hillman
I guess the money should've changed him
I guess I should've forgot where I came from
[Hook: Kanye (w/ 
Young Jeezy
)]
La, la, la la
Wait 'til I get my money right
La, la, la la
Then you can't tell me nothing, right?
Excuse me, was you saying something?
Uh uh, you can't tell me nothing
You can't tell me nothing
Uh uh, you can't tell me nothing
[Verse 2]
Let up the suicide doors
This is my life homie, you decide yours
I know that Jesus died for us
But I couldn't tell ya who decide wars
So I parallel double parked that motherfucker sideways
Old folks talking bout back in my day
But homie this is my day, class started 2 hours ago
Oh am I late? No, I already graduated
And you can live through anything if Magic made it
They say I talk with so much emphasis
Ooh they so sensitive
Don't ever fix your lips like collagen
And say something when you gon' end up apologing
Let me know if it's a problem then, aight man, holla then
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Let the champagne splash
Let that man get cash
Let that man get past
He don't even stop to get gas
If he can move through the rumors
He can drive off of fumes cause
How he move in a room full of no's?
How he stay faithful in a room full of hoes?
Must be the pharaohs, he in tune with his soul
So when he buried in a tomb full of gold
Treasure, what's your pleasure?
Life is a, UH, depending how you dress her
So if the devil wear Prada
, 
Adam Eve wear nada
I'm in between but way more fresher
With way less effort
, 
cause when you try hard
That's when you die hard
Your homies looking like why God
When they reminisce over you, my God
[Hook]


[Intro: Kanye West (Young Jeezy)]
La La La La (
8732 that's the way it go
, 
Kanye and Jizzle say it ain't so
)
Wait till I get my money right
[Verse 1: Young Jeezy]
If I had a billion dollars (YEAHHHHHHHHHH)
Yeah, I'd spend all in a day, show these niggas how to play (play)
Top floor penthouse, I'll show them where I stay (stay)
Grand piano, might learn to play
 (Ha Ha!)
Need a hundred grand just to walk past it every day
 (Woo! Woo!)
You know I like them white keys on it (yea!)
Duct tape when we wrap them, call me prejudice
Cause I never touch the black ones (keys that is, Ha Ha!)
Let me show how to do this, shawty!
 (shawty!)
I hit the strip club and I blew bout forty (DAMN!)
Patron got me so confused (fused)
Until I stumbled outside and I made the news
Fresh nine piece, yeah them wings is cajun
Never seen me in the kitchen nigga, I am amazing (nah)
Well, fuck it I'm rich then
If balling is a crime, fuck it I'm hit then
If thugging is a term, fuck it I'm it then
The insane dough, hey, fuck it I'm sick then
Somebody call me a shrink
Until then, I'mma fix me a drink (Ha Ha!)
Top down in the Bent, I'm so intoxicated
Sometimes I think to myself "Goddamn, I made it"
And I know they hate it
On the all night flight
Trying to get my money right
Wassup?
[Hook: Kanye West (Young Jeezy)]
La La La La (Hey!)
Wait till I get my money right
La La La La (Yeah!)
Then you can't tell me nothing, right?
Excuse me, is you saying something?
Uh uh, you can't tell me nothing
 (HA HA!)
You can't tell me nothing
Uh uh, you can't tell me nothing
[Verse 2: Kanye West (Young Jeezy)]
Yeah, homie this a theme song
First I get my money right, then I get my team on
If I always prayed to have gleam on
$300 jeans on, do that mean I dream wrong?
And I was high as a Leer Jet
Fly as the insect
, 
even though we in debt
And it don't matter if I get her number cause
When I get my money right she gon come running
And I'll be good like "God" with an extra "o"
God knows that my check needs some extra 0's
And you know that 
you need to bring some extra hoes
Not in 
jogging pants either
, 
tell them wear some sexy clothes
Now my game so professional
And my chain so fresh, they go (oh oh oh oh oh)
Right after the fame did you gain anything?
Damn 'Ye, would you change anything?
But (If I had a billion dollars YEAHHHHHHHHHH)
I'd copped more pink polos and pop those collars
Misery love company, her nickname Sorrow
My Benz need company, her nickname tahoe
“Wait 'til I get my money” everybody's motto
So I'mma need a bravo for everything I wrote
Yeah, hey, mama they can't hate him
Cause after all of the drama, K slayed them
[Hook]
[Outro: Kanye West (Young Jeezy)]
(If I had a billion dollars YEAHHHHHHHHHH)
Wait till I get my money right
(If I had a billion dollars YEAHHHHHHHHHH)
Then you can't tell me nothing, right?
[Connie Mitchell (Young Jeezy)]
(I'm serious, nigga! Hey!)
Why were you late?
(Yeah! HA HA!
Yeah! You know I'm serious, nigga! 
I got money
!)
Oh oh oh oh oh
Good money made!
Oh oh oh oh oh
Good money made!
Why were you late?
Oh oh oh oh oh
Good money made!


[Intro: Kanye West]
La, la, la la
Wait 'til I get my money right
[Verse 1: Lil Wayne]
I got 'em
Young Carter on the A-team if it's in alphabetical order
Used to daydream about Benzes and Porches
And by 18, I had a Benz and a Porche
I'm so used to stuntin' on y'all
So tired of ballin', excuse me if I yawn
But I know what I'm doing
Out the window of the jet, you see L.A. like a Bruin
New coupe, foot to the floor
Weather man make it rain, turn sugar to snow, you know
But watch how you speak
Cause in the street you can't trust every smile you meet
And you ain't as important as the new addition is
Ralph Tresvant, ooh they so sensitive
And it's the remix baby
And I'm a knock it out like Felix baby
God damn I'm fly
And my troop so cool, I don't have to lie
Hop in my car and go Kanye West
With my groovy new Louis Vuitton domke vest
Let 'em hate though
I'm on my way to the bank, LMAO
[Hook: Kanye West]
La, la, la la
Wait 'til I get my money right
La, la, la la
Then you can't tell me nothing, right?
Excuse me, was you saying something?
Uh uh, you can't tell me nothing
You can't tell me nothing
Uh uh, you can't tell me nothing
[Verse 2: Busta Rhymes]
It's one of the best to touch microphones
That'll spit the kind of shit to put the earth in a type of zone, like
To make 'em laugh or make 'em cry
Bring a life into existence or cause you to die
Now when I was a shorty and when my mom called me precious
I realized I'm outspoken and every word was infectious
I'm sayin', Mommy said God'll bless us
No matter the difficulties or how much it would stress us
I'm sayin', no matter how hard I try
To understand if I behave that I'll see God when I die, man
These words'll dawn on me, why?
Cause no one came back from death to say if it's truth or it's lies
See the point that I'm makin' is that she knew I was blessed
And comin' to life as a legend, the man of best in the flesh
I kiss my mother, countin' figures
Thinkin 'back on when I used to tell niggas, they sayin'
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Yeah, homie this a theme song
First I get my money right, then I get my team on
If I always pray to have gleam on
$300 jeans on, do that mean I dream wrong?
And I was high as a Learjet
Fly as the insect, even though we in debt
And it don't matter if I get her number
Cause when I get my money right she gon' come running
And I'll be good like "God" with an extra "O"
God knows that my check needs some extra 0's
And you know that you need to bring some extra hoes
Not in jogging pants either, tell them wear some sexy clothes
Now my game so professional
And my chain so fresh, they go (oh oh oh oh oh)
Right after the fame did you gain anything?
Damn Ye, would you change anything?
But (If I had a billion dollars)
I'd cop more pink polos and pop those collars
Misery love company, her nickname Sorrow
My Benz need company, her nickname Tahoe
“Wait 'til  get my money,” everybody motto
So I'mma need a bravo for everything I wrote
Yeah, hey mama they can't hate him
Cause after all of the drama, K slayed 'em
[Hook]


[Verse 1 - Beanie Sigel]
You can't tell me nothing
Gangster? I don't buy it -- you can't sell me nothing
I'm everything you thought I wasn't
Now check out how I does it on this K. West production
All your bullshit, I will flush it
And I got the paper to wipe that ass
Every little song and dance come out, y'all hype that trash
And yo, I'm far from a hater
Cause suckers gotta eat too -- get y'all paper
I ain't mad at cha
 -- 
I just can't deal with these fake rappers
Cause most of these niggas wear they boxers backwards
Niggas claim king but can't govern they household
Now real niggas doing time from shit they mouth told
Why dick-eating niggas always rap with a mouth full?
But you know they don't play with me
The realest nigga alive
 -- what can these niggas say to me? Nothing
[Hook - Kanye West]
La la la la, wait 'til I get my money right
La la la la, then you can't tell me nothing, right?
Excuse me, is you saying something?
Uh-uh, you can't tell me nothing
[Verse 2 - Freeway]
I had a dream that Jay and Dame was back together
And in that second, everything was back the same
In reality, your boy went to Mecca, came back
And said that I would never rap again
But I'm back and that's the way the ball bounce
A verse is a ounce, a album's a brick -- now it's time for traffic game
Y'all lame, I am the product
Hotter than lava, they wonder how this Roc-a-fella package came
First you take a brick of Jay, a brick of 'Ye
Couple quarters of Freeway, an ounce of Beans
Then you kill 'em with the flow
We the realest
; 
even Dontrelle Willis couldn't out the team
We speak the truth and they believe us
Tell FEMA even Hurricane Katrina couldn't out the flames
Roc-a-fella here to stay, we airing out y'all lames
Free At Last on the way, so clear 'em out my lane
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Kanye West]
Yeah homie, this the theme song
First I get my money right, then I get my team on
If I always prayed to have gleam on
Three hundred dollar jeans on, do that mean I dream wrong?
And I was high as a Lear jet
Fly as the insect even though we in debt
And it don't matter if I get her number cause
When I get my money right
, she gon' come running
And I be good like God with a extra "o"
God knows that my check needs some extra O's
And you know that you need to bring some extra
Not in jogging pants, either -- tell 'em wear some sexy clothes
Now my game so professional and my chain so fresh, they go
But after the fame, did you gain anything?
Damn, 'Ye, would you change anything?
Well, [Young Jeezy: If I had a billion dollars]
I'd cop more pink Polos and pop those collars
Misery love company, her nickname "Sorrow"
My Benz need company, her nickname Tahoe
"Wait 'til I get my money" everybody motto
So I'mma need a bravo for everything that I wrote
Yeah -- 
hey mama
, they can't hate 'em
Cause after all of the drama, K slayed 'em
[Hook]
[Verse 4 - Uncle Murda]
Listen -- I ain't worried 'bout shit
It's a Roc-a-fella/GMG invasion, bitch
You hear them niggas talking 'bout me? Ain't that some shit
These niggas is like bitches -- they all on my dick
They don't want no real G to get in position
I opened up the door so all my real niggas could get in
Roc-a-fella, Def Jam, GMG
 it's on
Uncle Murda coming for the motherfucking throne
Listen, you could call me the king of New York
You can't front, 
I'm doing my thing
If it wasn't for the chronic and these bad-ass ho's
I'd be shooting motherfuckers everywhere I go,
 oh
But the head I be getting got me chilling
Got a nigga like, let me focus on these millions, man
It got me not thinking 'bout these lames
They don't really want no beef, they ain't life-threatening
I'm puffing purple haze with that sour diesel
Can't forget that kush -- I'm high as a eagle
And just cause I'm high off that marijuana
Don't mean I don't see them niggas creeping around the corner
They goners


[Produced by Dave Tozer, Hit-Boy & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
I'm so, excited
I'm home, been grindin'
Let's go, tonight
Just make some money you know
I got it, if you want it
If you love it
I'm on it, I'm on it
So come on it
I need your loving tonight
[Pre hook]
I'm tired of my job
I'm tired of my boss
Im taking you out
You taking it off
Only thing on my mind is how we bout to get it on
[Hook]
I wanna get caught up in your love tonight
You can help me just breathe, breathe
Im tryin' get caught up in your love tonight
You can help me just breathe, breathe
[Verse 2]
Now we got time
Let's stay in
I'm sayin'
I'mma make her stay home from church
I'm prayin'
I finally got to take the night off
So we can make some love tax right offs
We'll light some candles with the lights off
So we can set the mood right off
[Hook]
[Bridge]
I'm so, excited
I'm home, been grindin'
Let's go, tonight
Just make some money you know
I got it, if you want it
If you love it
I'm on it, I'm on it
So come on it
I need your loving tonight
I need your loving tonight
I need your loving tonight
[Hook] x2


[Intro/Hook]
Yeah, you know what this is
It's a celebration, bitches!
Grab a drink, grab a glass
After that I grab yo ass
[Verse 1]
Why you actin' all
Shy and all
Why is y'all
Lyin' for?
"I never did this before..."
Stop that
What, you want some Patron?
I got that
I mean I promise y'all
You fine and all
And your girlfriend, she kinda raw
But she not like you
No, she not like you
Right now I need you to mute all the monologue
All that talking is gon' give me a Tylenol
You put a nigga to sleep, I'm tired of y'all
Right now the Louis Vuitton don is signing off
[Bridge]
But, I just thought you should know
We hit the liquor store
Got some Cris and some Mo
And we about to let it floooooow
Had some problems before but see we let em go
Got an ounce of that dro
And we about to let it bloooooow
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
See you know my style
I'm very wild
And I vow that my child will be well endowed
Like his daddy
And tell him that your mama had a fattie
He looked up at me said, "daddy that's the reason why you had me?"
Yep, we was praticing
Til one day your ass bust through the packaging
You know what though? You my favorite accident
So go head pop some Cristal
For my newborn child
 cuz now y'all
[Hook & Bridge]


[Kanye West]
The problem I have with the paparazzi is if they’re right in front of you and you’re like, “Can you please not take a picture of me?” And they’re like, “Dude I’m not really taking a picture,” and they just keep on doing it like 
they’re talking to me like I’m stupid and stuff,
 and then, with arm sprints, 
I’m going to grab the camera,
 that just happens, and you don’t expect that to happen with a celebrity, cause you think they’re like a museum animal and stuff, but it’s like, don’t shoot the animals, then, maybe, I don’t know.
[Conan O’Brien]
What’s interesting, though, the problem is that once you do something like that, the word’s out. And these guys know that a shot of you losing your temper is worth ten times more then a shot of you remaining calm. So it’s kind of a no-win situation a little bit.
[Kanye West]
Well except for the fact that I’m going to do something about it. You know, I’m going to make a change. I think it’s my responsibility.
 My mom, she got arrested for being in the sit-ins at age 6. My grandfather drove the first car at the marches leaving out of Oklahoma. 
My father was an activist, so I think they just like, messed with the wrong celebrity just now.
[Conan O’Brien]
Right. Okay so you’re letting them know, leave me alone.


[Intro: Kanye West]
Uh, we got the black elite in the house tonight
Rosewood
I feel like I'm at the NAACP or something right now
Essence Festival
Q-Tip on the beat, too
[Hook 1: Kanye West]
My chain heavy, yeah, yeah, my chain heavy
My chain heavy, my chain too heavy
My chain heavy, yeah, yeah, my chain heavy
My chain heavy, my chain too heavy
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
They try to tell me my chain broke the levee
Maybe cause it's flooded
Why you walk around with a baby cross's cousin?
My teeth already white, y'all gon' make me floss with nothing
My teeth real diamonds
, what's the cause of the fronting
?
Why y'all got all caps on?
Don Cheadle time, get extra black on 'em
Burn, Hollywood, burn!
Take too long for niggas to get they turn
Probably be cremated before I get my earn
They try to tell me that aliens built the Pyramids
I swear life's a bitch, on a period
For every inch they cut the nose off the Sphinx
I make my jeweler add a few more links
You can look at me tell I don't give a fuck what nobody think
And my face always looking like somebody stinks
[Hook]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
Here we go, like we should
Feel the sweat, on your face
Here we go, like we should
Feel the sweat, on your face
Alright, okay
Here we go, like we should
Like we should, like we should
Like we should
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Question: what color was the skin of the man who beared the cross?
No matter how many lashes, they couldn't beat it off
How many Cassius will we see in one lifetime?
That's why it's Miles Davis, Kobe, it's Mike time
I keep that GOAT book on the ottoman
And wrote hooks about slaves that was slaughtered in the 1800s
Y'all forget that I got called "nigga"
On Twitter so many times, yo, I lived that
Now I'm just tryna find where to raise my kids at
Cause they don't want niggas next to where they crib at
Hey realtor, I'm lookin' for a nice park
Twelve noon, she said my family gon' make it too dark
This is the flow that solar eclipses
So hopefully one day that real soul will eclipse
The bullshit they got us listening to in this existence
Don't give up now just a little more persistence
I am the day Ice Cube met Michael Jackson
Keep him away, 
huh?
 
Something might happen
This is the making of a masterpiece
So we broke out the chains and told the master "Peace!"
[Hook] + [Bridge]
[Verse 3: Talib Kweli]
Some wear a suit and tie, they don't wanna remain average
Some wear a suit and tie like a chain and a straitjacket
My chain heavy, stop in that traffic, coppers harass us
Then DA attack us,
 
want us in chains like B.A. Baracus
So no major factor in my decision to be a rapper
Was rebellion; being anti-establishment was attractive
To a black kid from Brooklyn
, flames got the things cooking
Land of the juks where them lames get them chains tooken
It ain't lookin' good for you if you're a tourist here
Sometimes I rhymes the sort of frequency that only purists hear
A couple rappers tried to beef with me nobody scared
Niggas was so fucking corny that nobody cared
Why I gotta battle rappers? I debate scholars
Question: do it gotta make sense if it make dollars?
Sick visions is living inside of brains
It's like we sadomasochistic, addicted to whips and chains
Figuratively, quite literally, clinically insane
Spit flames and then visit the higher plane
Try in vain to ignore it, don't buy the chain if you can't afford it
'Ye them load of whores by the boards
Trust
[Verse 4: Consequence]
That old ball-and-chain had me chained up for weeks
So of course I'm off the chain as soon as I hit the streets
And now when we link she saying the game's over
I drove her crazy and she became a chain smoker
Now the new dude she's saying that can stay over
Should be a chain who goes by the name of Choker
That's what he did when she told him he should play the sofa
So the chains on the door, I'm on the way over
Now when I came over his only response was:
"You must be the owner of a chain of restaurants
Cause I'mma eat your food for that chain that I wore
Cause you be running around like the chain make the man"
So it's obvious the he don't know the chain of command
Cause my chain commands that kind of respect
And it's so chunky that it's a pain in the neck
But it came with a check, I remember on chaining day
It spoke for itself and this is what the chain would say:
"Them chain snatchers are hoping that you ain't ready
So don't get distracted keep your aim steady
Or there'll be a chain reaction since my chain's heavy"
[Hook] + [Bridge]


[Produced by Kanye West and Brian Miller]
[Hook]
Did you realize
That you were a champion in their eyes?
Yes I did
So I packed it up and brought it back to the crib
Just a little something, show you how we live
Everybody want it but it ain't that serious
Mhm, that's that shit
So if you gon' do it, do it just like this
[Hook]
[Verse 1]
You don't see just how wild the crowd is
You don't see just how fly my style is
I don't see why I need a stylist
When I shop so much I can speak Italian
I don't know I just want it better for my kids
And I ain't saying we was from the projects
But every time I wanna layaway or deposit
My dad'd say "when you see clothes, close your eyelids"
We was sort of like Will Smith and his son
In the movie -- I ain't talking 'bout the rich ones
Cause every summer
He'll get some brand new harebrained scheme to get rich from
And I don't know what he did for dough
But he'll send me back to school with a new wardrobe
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
When it feel like living's harder than dying
For me giving up's way harder than trying
Lauryn Hill said her heart was in Zion
I wish her heart still was in rhyming
Cause who the kids gon' listen to, huh?
I guess me if it isn't you
Last week I paid a visit to the Institute
They got the Dropout keeping kids in the school
I guess I cleaned up my act like Prince'd do
If not for pleasure, then at least for the principle
They got the CD, they got to see me
Drop gems like I dropped out of PE
They used to feel invisible
Now they know they invincible
[Hook]
[Bridge]
This is the story of a champion
Runners on their mark and they pop their guns
Stand up stand up here he comes
Tell me what it takes to be number 1
Tell me what it takes to be number 1
[Hook]


[Samples from "We Are the Champions" by Queen]
Time after time / I've done my sentence / but committed no crime
I've done my sentence / but committed no crime
I've done my sentence / but committed no crime, crime, crime
And we mean to go on and on and on and on
[Intro: Dame Dash]
Sup y'all? Yo, this is Dame Dash the CEO
Here to welcome y'all to the Dream Team
What y'all niggas thought I was gonna rap? Never
I'm just a little mad at niggas comin at my neck
Like my Team ain't the best in the world... y'knahmsayin?
Like we ain't got 
Beans, Cam, Jay, Bleek, Freeway
[Hook]
We are the champions, my friend
And we'll keep on fighting, to the end
We are the champions, we are the champions
No time for losers / cause we are the champions... of the world
[Dame Dash]
Got damn Kanye! I bet niggas didn't know you could rap huh?
 (They didn't)
That's my motherfucking producer
This the producer on the Roc, he rap better than most rappers!
[Kanye West]
Well Dame, if these niggas thought about they self for a change
Then maybe they can finally figure out how to get they self some change
I done seen jealousy make niggas do t-terrible things
How'd that song go I did with HOV, oh yeah -- shit'll never change
Not to worry, though -- 
we are the cham-p-ions
Spend a lot of time in Hampt-i-ons
, do a lot of beats you can't be on
Damn all these fans can't be wrong
, 
damn B.I.G. you can't be gone
Make those beats thugs want to rock, 
make a nigga feel just like 'Pac
Make it street but it just might pop
, make it straight to the mountain top
Had the Chi' on lock, when they finally heard I signed with Roc
Came in the game, changed it again, changed everything, yeahhhhh
If you feeling this here, throw your fucking hands in the air
[Young Chris]
Its the Roc-a-Fella label baby fuck them other labels baby
And we been ducking shots from all them haters lately
We getting paper baby, them others trying to keep up
We on top, so I guess we they saviors - NOPE!
We labelled as the Roc-A-Fellas, 
Jacob, watch's colors
Everywhere hell yea, test us and the gauges BLOW!
Fuck they hatin fo'? Don't make me pop a fella
Roc-A-Fella, stop a fella, could get hot for fellas, SIG!!!
[Beanie Sigel]
WHAT?! Don't make me chop a fella, have to call the cop for fellas
Order helicopter fellas
... NIG-GA! I'm a Roc-A-Fella
What nigga for Roc-A-Fella shit I will rock a fella
Dame! (God damn Beans I got this let me talk my shit one time)
No we the illest niggas; realest, I will kill these niggas!!
[Dame Dash]
Now that's what the fuck I'm talking bout!
And you wonder why I'm proud of my family?
And you wonder why I ain't gotta rap?
I got niggas that will assassinate you B, lyrically!
Really shut you the fuck down!! Don't get your career ended
Leave us the fuck alone, let us rock!
We are Roc-Heusen
, we're the R., O., C. - HOLLA!
[Cam'Ron]
I'm here Dame, I'm here, Killa
This is just fate, how I would sit on a crate
Listen to tapes, every day a frisk was at stake
Jakes' cuffs, wrists getting raped
; 
my mission was straight -- to
Visit them states near them great Michigan lakes
And fuck a bathroom, I pissed on the gate
Flipped the bird at em, flip a bird, switch up my plates
I got plans that was better than jail
Now look -- we like Bird, Parish, Kevin McHale
Scott, Worthy, Jabbar, and Magic
Oh my god it's magic; 
Isiah, Dumars, I will carve your casket
Phil, Scottie, and Mike; Phil, Shaq, and Kobe
My gats will detach you, homie
And I'm friends with thugs, I sell endless drugs
For the Roc Fam, dog, I extend my love
Jay, Bleek, beef I'll be crossing the bridge
Tossing they wigs, make corpse of they kids
Free, O, Sparks, and Mack Mittens
I'm 95 south, no doubt, mac clip in
I stack chips and I'm Saks Fifth-in
Louis Vuitton loafers, hat dripping
I go retrieve a duck, tell her proceed and suck
I don't just beat my cases, I beat 'em up
My lawyer eat 'em up put bars behind me
I'm glad they didn't stop that car behind me
Shit, it had three felons, gun shooters no
50 cal. A.C.P., Bazooka Joe
Don't be stupid though, I get scrilla man
I'm for'rilla man, yeah it's Killa Cam
Uhhh... DIP SET BITCH!
[Dame Dash]
What y'all thought I was finished?
I'm not! I just recuited somebody new!
I'm like the George Steinbrenner of this shit
I mean I'm rich like him, HOLLA!
[Twista]
Everybody's swarming, oh my god
It's the newest power forward of the squad
A legacy like Jordan with the mob
That be known for breaking motherfuckers hard
Put Roc-A-Fella on my pinky ring
Fuck a battle, nigga -- I'mma get them thangs
Rollin with them Lords and them folks up out the Chi
Twista gone make em spit the game
I represent the mob to the fullest
You don't want it with that boy who's known to pull it
With Kanye on the track of the Dream Team
I'm fin' to be the shit no matter which way you put it
They blessed a nigga in, now I'm fin' to go into a zone
Taking it to some motherfuckers domes
Cause it's on, I will rock until I'm gone
Filling my body with lead, clutching chrome
Take it to your gut, take it to your chest
I be more provoking when I'm smoking sess
And we getting stronger, 
hope you got a vest
Already got them Macs, already got them Tecs
Served a few dimes, Beans got pearls
Legendary we on top of the world
How could you haters think we can be done
Hold it down because we got champions!!


Common Ground Foundation
Dr. Donda West Foundation
Food Bank for New York City
GRAMMY Foundation
Habitat for Humanity
Human Rights Watch
LIFEbeat
Live 8
Live Earth
Make It Right
Médecins Sans Frontières
Mission Australia
MusiCares
Oxfam
Red Cross
Robin Hood Foundation
Stand Up to Cancer
The Art of Elysium
The Lunchbox Fund


[Hook: Scratches of Kanye West and Common] (x4)
(Common) And ya say 
Chi-City
(Kanye West) 
We don't stop, naw, we don't quit
[Verse 1: Common]
I rap with the passion of Christ, nigga cross me
Took it out of space and niggas thought they lost me
I'm back like a chiroprac' with b-boy survival rap
It ain't ninety-fo' Joe, we can't go back
The game need a makeover
My man retired, I'mma takeover
Tell these halftime niggas break's over
I'm raw, hustlas get your baking soda
Too many rape the culture
Leave rappers with careers and they faith over
It's a war goin' on, you can't fake bein' a soldier
In the basement, listening to tapes of Ultra-
Magnetic, to the fact the messiah is black
I'll turn the TV down, we can take it higher than that
I wonder if these whack niggas realize they whack
And they the reason that my people say they tired of rap
Inspired by black Muslims and Christians
Pushin' cutlasses, dope, and other traditions
In the conditions of the city, the city
The city, the city, the city, the city
Come on
[Hook] (4x)
[Verse 2: Common]
A black figure...in the middle with chaos and gunfire
So many raps about rims, surprised niggas ain't become tires
On the street you turn cold and then go screech
I tell 'em "fuck 'em" like I do to police
The beast is runnin' rampant
I'm in between sheets tryin' to have sex that's tantric
For the ghetto, tryin' to make a get-up stand-up anthem
You spit hot garbage son of Sanford
What you rappin' for to get fame or get rich?
I slap a nigga like you, and tell him "Rick James bitch!"
With your Hollywood stories,
 on porches
We polly hood stories about who became rich
And whatever light they hit, we wanna hit the same switch
You didn't know where to aim it, you still remain bitch
I'm forever puttin' words together
Some'll sever mothers from daughters and fathers from sons
The name Com', has never been involved wit' run
Unless it's DMC,
 
or runnin' these broads to bein' free
I'm harder than the times,
 
you hardly scary
Holdin' gats inside, you cats is Halle Berry
They ask me where hip-hop is goin', it's Chicagoan
Poetry's in motion like a picture now showin'
It's the city, the city y'all, the city
Uh, the city y'all, come on
[Hook] (7x) [While Kanye West sings]
And ya say Chi-City
(scratched together) 
Common Sense, from the city of wind


[Refrain: Theophilus London]
To grow old in my arms, oh, girl
Take all, can't stop, my love
[Hook: Theophilus London] x2
Can't stop, you can't stop
Can't, can't stop, you can't stop my love
Can't stop, you can't stop my love
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Everything she was doin' was cool, but it ain't Ralph though
Might have gave me head in the pool, that ain't your mouth though
Might have caught you clappin' every Sunday at church
You still ratchet cause they play your favorite song and you twerk
Designer purse on your arm, 'bout the size of a duffle bag
And them brand new titties cost a couple racks
Feelin' on a girl's ass with a troubled past
Chainsmokin' every day, at least a couple packs
You know I always hit you deeper than a baritone
Bone you with my jewelry on, that's a herringbone
Hotter than Arizon', fresher than aerosol
These condom rappin' ass niggas wasn't ever raw
It's aiight but it ain't Ralph though
And unless your money talkin' keep your mouth closed
We smokin' indo outdoor, in Palo Alto
If this party ain't got hoes, my intro's my outro
[Hook] + [Refrain] (simultaneous)
[Verse 2: Theophilus London]
Please spend the night forever
The silence in my room is louder than kaboom
Let's skip the north freeze for the southern breeze
The grass is always greener when there's bumblebees
She said to bring the flower seeds, I'll bring the pumpkin seeds
Shorty on the German foreign shit, she fuck, recede
We set alarm clocks just to wake and bake
She cooked up a salt fish and I fry the bake
Dresses by Margiela,
 lookin' so heavenly
She one step ahead of me, 
jewelry by Jenavi
Start sittin' by the lake, don't have no enemies
We'll have epiphanies, take you to Tiffany's
Wake you up early when the boat leaves, baby
Call you on the dock, you can smoke trees, baby
Livin' that life, you up in the air
Don't care, you can't, you can't stop it, baby
[Hook: Theophilus London] x2
[Refrain] x2
[Hook] + [Refrain] (simultaneous)


[Produced by Hit-Boy]
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
Christmas in Harlem
Right after autumn falls
Soakin’ it all in
Then we go hit the mall
Even though we ain’t ballin’
Feels like we bought it all
The mistletoe’s right here
Come give a kiss to Santa Claus
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Merry Christmas to all, and all a good night
Huh, now we all livin’ the good life
Yeah, though it’s forty below the wind chill
And we wipin’ snow up off the windshield
It’s still, wonderful night to be alive, baby
And I’m, so happy I’m with my baby
And we a little late with the Christmas gifts
Rushin’ for the mall, don’t trip, you know I drive crazy
The streets lit up, it feel like Christmas officially
Told her that “You the star at the top of my Christmas tree”
My only question is, “Where my presents?”
She said, “Shhh,” she got a gift for me that ain’t for the kids to see
Well, I like the way you think, mami
Now pour some more eggnog in you drink, mami
You've been a bad girl, give Santa three kisses
Gave her the hot chocolate, she said “It’s Dee-ricious”
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Vado]
Merry X-mas,
 
Santa Claus cherry X6
They ain't hear my rain, dear
Make it snow on the next chick
Got enough toys, wondering what's my next pick
Before my exit, it get diamond rolex reckless
Big bags, Got everything on the checklist
Necklace, Baguette wrist
Pockets fat, they Precious
Give Ma a peck kiss, look and tell her she precious
Lighting up the sour, this tree give me the best gifts
[Verse 3: Jim Jones]
And I remember when I couldn't play Santa Claus
No reindeers, just horses and a Panamera Porcshe
We on two fifth shopping, what the damage cost
I got your fam while you bidding in the can up north
Woops, I’m at Niemens I hope they still got em
You want the thigh high spikes with the red bottoms
Let's make a toast cause Christ is born
We gon’ party all night til the lights come on
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Cyhi the Prince]
Yeah, mom and dad I won't be home for the holidays
I’m over 800 miles away
In the city that's so pretty
Where the hustlers dash through the snow without a sleigh
Tell my family that I’m sorry that I gotta stay
I’m with Ye at the Macy Day parade
Letting the snow fall on my aviator shades
Even though I’m in New York I’m still repping for the A
[Hook]
[Verse 5: Pusha T]
On the stoop of that Brownstone shovelling the brownstone
Santa’s on a diet, gotta get the pounds gone
Down town got me feeling like it’s Dow Jones
But uptown got me feeling like its down home
Snow like sugar hill
Chains on wheels
We turn our two doors into snowmobiles
We got our own style, no Soho feel
Put on your play clothes, how that logo feel?
[Verse 6: Big Sean]
Oh, pose for them photo stills
You dont wanna miss a moment
Where’s your NoDoz pills
I caught her looking at my Rollie as my mojo spills
Snowflakey on the bezel
Hope you know those real
Okay my white girl Veronica
Black girl Monica
Got me celebrating ChristmaHanuKwanzaakah
Rocking dashikis with a yarmulke
Where the Christmas tree at? Let's design it up!
[Hook]
[Verse 7: Cam'ron]
Lenox Ave to Saint Nick
Never seen St Nick
Just niggas selling the same nicks, the same bricks
Same hustlers running up the broadway
Thats where the snow’s at, taste it, foreplay
No turkey or greens, just Jimbo’s
Christmas lights in project windows
Shouts to the coldest on my barometer
Berkman, Shapiro, Kalina, Hanukkah
(My lawyers)
[Verse 8: Teyana Taylor & Musiq Soulchild]
All the flashin’ lights up on a tree
The house lit up ni-ice
Wit’ your family’s where you wanna be
Here on Christmas night
When you wake up and you see the gifts
Don’t that make you feel go-ood?
So since we all snowed in in Harlem
Let’s have Christmas in the hoo-hood
[Outro: Teyana Taylor]
All of the flashin’ lights
Yeah, when they shine so bright
Always for you and me
Baby, you’re Christmas Eve
If you like what you see me
Won’t you come sit on my knee?
Tell me everything that you want
‘Cause, baby, I’m your Santa Claus
[Hook]


[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
Christmas in Harlem
Right after autumn falls
Soakin’ it all in
Then we go hit the mall
Even though we ain’t ballin’
Feels like we bought it all
The mistletoe’s right here
Come give a kiss to Santa Claus
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Merry Christmas to all, and all a good night
Huh, now we all livin’ the good life
Yeah, though it’s forty below the wind chill
And we wipin’ snow up off the windshield
It’s still, wonderful night to be alive, baby
And I’m, so happy I’m with my baby
And we a li’l late wit’ the Christmas gifts
Rushin’ for the mall, don’t trip, you know I drive crazy
The streets lit up, it feel like Christmas officially
Told her that “You the star at the top of my Christmas tree”
My only question is, “Where my presents?”
She said, “Shhh,” she got a gift for me that ain’t for the kids to see
Well, I like the way you think, mami
Now pour some more eggnog in you drink, mami
Got a surprise for you that ain’t on your Christmas list-es
Gave her the hot chocolate, she said “It’s D-ricious”
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
[Verse 2: Cyhi the Prince]
First, I wanted to say Merry Christmas to y’all
For Santa Claus, so bake a turkey, burn a few logs
I be there soon, on my sled, me and Rudolph
Thugs think I’m a Blood ’cause I won’t take this red suit off
Ha, I swear I got the freshest wardrobe
I let my beard grow ’cause it’s cold in the North Pole
Her voice slow ’cause “I always got a sore throat”
Okay, stop it, no more jokes
You never see me ’cause I shop when the stores close
And my sleigh go faster than the Porsche go
Ha, I got nine reindeers
That’s Dancer, that’s Prancer on the fourth flo’
That’s Comet, that’s Cupid, that’s Vixen
That’s Donner, that’s Dasher, that’s Blitzen
Happy Kwanzaa, and for the ones that aren’t Christian
Everybody gets gifts as long as I’m livin’
So look forward to havin’
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
[Verse 3: Teyana Taylor]
All the flashin’ lights up on a tree
The house lit up ni-ice
Wit’ your family’s where you wanna be
Here on Christmas night
When you wake up and you see the gifts
Don’t that make you feel go-ood?
So since we all snowed in in Harlem
Let’s have Christmas in the hoo-hood
[Bridge: Teyana Taylor]
All of the flashin’ light
Yeah, when they shine so bright
Always for you and me
Baby, you’re Christmas Eve
If you like what you see me
Won’t you come sit on my knee?
Tell me everything that you want
‘Cause, baby, I’m your Santa Claus
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
I peeped it, you know what?
Need some reindeer for this one
I wanna hear sleigh bells on this one
Got a new suit on this one
The newborn look too cute for this one
Yeah, the new winter coat for this one
Yeah, gotta let it snow on this one
Huh, all the Christmas cheer for this one
The whole family up in here on this one
Yeah
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]


[Produced by DJ Premier]
[Hook]
And now for my next number I'd like to return to the
[Nas]
Classic
[Kanye West]
Uh, uh, 
- timeless
[Kool G Rap]
Live straight classic
[Nas]
Classic
[Kool G Rap]
Live, straight classic
[Kanye West]
Timeless
[Sample]
I'd like to return to the classic
[Rakim]
Kanye West
[Rakim Sample]
I'm Rakim, the fiend of a microphone
[Verse 1: Rakim]
Uh yea, is y'all ready for 20-07
It's now another drought
Everybody's a killer, why are we bugging out
Since '86 showin' the crowd what I'm about
And they still wanna know when the album coming out
Ask the teenagers, OG's and nasty kids
What their definition of classic is
Timeless, so age don't count in the booth
When your flow stay submerged in the fountain of youth
Ain't no doubting the truth, I'm off the meters
Everybody cosigning, even non-believers
Since I came in the door
 
became one of y'alls leaders
In a fresh pair Air Force One sneakers
Uptowns, we call em uppies, when they're on divas
Probably worn when KRS-One teaches
Nas made you look before the heaters
I bet you Kan' had em on when he walked with Jesus
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
You can't buy this Superfly-ness
Like a shine is, 
your highness
Is performing, look how long the line is
It's what happens when you make shit that's timeless
It's what happens, these rappers is the pioneers
What do it take to be a legend like Nas is
That's so novice, I'm so polished
I got a right to be a lil bit snobbish
I did a lil bit of college
Semesters, it took two like Rob Base
To let me figure out this wasn't my place
The beat's slow, til you listen to my pace
Cause I be killing shit, but that's evident
And y'all feeling it, but I expected it
If it's classic, it's gon' last forever then
I'm everywhere you never been, and better than I ever been
[Hook]
[Nas Samples - One Love & It Ain't Hard To Tell]
Hold the fort down, represent to the fullest
Nas'll rock well
[Verse 3: Nas]
Perseverance, see the fake hustler rapper
To them, it hurts to hear this
Oh you went platinum, yeah that's nice
Now let me see you do the same thing twice
Three times, four times, then a couple of mo' times
Please, you're Amateur Night, it's Showtime
It's one life to live, so live it the best you can
The world could use one less man
Not enough air, not enough car factories
To manufacture new vehicles, sedans and vans
When they do make the whip you like, your chips 
ain't right
By the time you could afford it, the car ain't important
In the streets I'm in, it's just iron
Cops keep firing, in my environment
Leaving you slumped, then they drive home
Far from the hood, brothers they eager to jump on
I like to be the wall that they toast up on
I like to see them fall, guilty for doing wrong
I'm classic like the Air One's, the hustler shoe
That's what I'm accustomed to, yeah
[Hook: Samples]
[KRS-One Sample]
"Of course - we have Blastmaster KRS-One"
[Verse 4: KRS-One]
How many of y'all got Criminal Minded
You, you, you, y'all don't be blinded
Me, I got no jewels on my neck
Why, I don't need em, I got your respect
KRS-One, twenty years I rock
I do it for JMJ and Scott La Rock
This hip-hop and we's a nation
Don't you wanna hear more KRS-One on your radio station
Instead of broadcasting how we smoke them trees
On the radio we need to hear more local emcees
Where you at?, c'mon where you at
This is the difference between emceeing and rap
Rappers spit rhymes that are mostly illegal
Emcees spit rhymes to uplift their people
Peace, Love, Unity, havin' fun
These are the lyrics of KRS-One
[Hook]


[Intro: James Fauntleroy]
What of the dollar you murdered for?
Is that the one fighting for your soul?
Or your brother's the one that you're running from?
But if you got money, fuck it, cause I want some
[Big Sean]
B-I-G
Who fucking with me?
Oh God!
[Hook: Big Sean]
Ain't nobody fucking with my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my muthafuckin
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
As I look around, they don't do it like my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
And all these bad bitches, man, they want the
They want the, they want the
[Verse 1: Big Sean]
I tell a bad bitch do whatever I say
My block behind me like I'm coming out the driveway
It's grind day, from Friday, to next Friday
I been up straight for nine days, I need a spa day
Yup, she trying get me that poo-tang
I might let my crew bang,
 
my crew deeper than Wu Tang
I'm rolling with... fuck I'm saying? Girl, you know my crew name
You know 2 Chainz? Scrrr!
 
I'm pulling up in that Bruce Wayne
But I'm the fucking villain, man, they kneeling when I'm walking in the building
Freaky women I be feeling from the bank accounts I'm filling
What a feeling, ah man, they gotta be
Young player from the D that's killing everything that he see for the dough
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Yeah, I'm talking Ye, yeah, I'm talking Rih
Yeah, I'm talking B, nigga, I'm talking me
Yeah, I'm talking bossy, I ain't talking Kelis
Your money too short, you can't be talking to me
Yeah, I'm talking LeBron,
 
we ball in our family tree
G.O.O.D. Music drug-dealing cousin,
 
ain't nothing fuckin' with we, me
Turn that 62 to 125, 125 to a 250
250 to a half a million, ain't nothin' nobody can do with me
Now who with me? 
 
Call me Hov or 
Translation: I'm the shit, least that what my neck say
Least that what my check say,
 
lost my homie for a decade
Nigga down for like 12 years, ain't hug his son since the second grade
He never told. Who he gonna tell?
 
We top of the totem pole
It's the Dream Team
 
meets the Supreme Team
And all our eyes green it only means one thing
You ain't fucking with the clique
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Break records at Louis,
 
ate breakfast at Gucci
My girl a superstar all from a home movie
Bow on our arrival - the un-American idols
What niggas did in Paris, got 'em hanging off the Eiffel
Yeah I'm talking business,
 
we talking CIA
I'm talking George Tenet,
 
I seen him the other day
He asked me about my Maybach, think he had the same
Except mine tinted and his might have been rented
You know white people get money, don't spend it
Or maybe they get money, buy a business
I rather buy 80 gold chains and go ign'ant
I know Spike Lee gone kill me but let me finish
Blame it on the pigment, we living no limits
Them gold Master P ceilings was just a figment
Of our imagination, MTV cribs
Now I'm looking at a crib right next to where TC lives
That's Tom Cruise, whatever she accuse
He wasn't really drunk he just had a frew brews
Pass the refreshments, a cool, cool beverage
Everything I do need a news crew's presence
Speedboat swerve, homie watch out for the waves
I'm way too black to burn from sun rays
So I just meditate at the home in Pompeii
About how I could build a new Rome in one day
Everytime I'm in Vegas they screaming like he's Elvis
But I just wanna design hotels and nail it
Shit is real, got me feeling Israelian
Like Bar Refaeli,
 
Gisele, nah that's Brazilian
Went through, deep depression when my momma passed
Suicide, what kinda talk is that?
But I been talking to God for so long
That if you look at my life I guess he's talking back
Fucking with my clique
[Hook]


[Intro: James Fauntleroy]
What of the dollar you murdered for?
Is that the one fighting for your soul?
Or your brother's the one that you're running from?
But if you got money, fuck it, cause I want some
B-I-G
Who fucking with me?
Oh god!
[Hook: Big Sean]
Ain't nobody fucking with my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my muthafucking
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
As I look around, they don't do it like my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
And all these bad bitches, man, they want the...
They want the... they want the...
[Verse 1: T.I.]
It's H.U.S.T.L.E. gang
They try me, I bet we bang
Ride in the Chevy man, candy painted, day to day
Rain on these niggas, bring pain to these niggas
I'm in this bitch you know you shouldn't came pussy nigga
I'm a Pimp Squad OG
Quarter, half, whole thing
Score 24 keys, flip that, more cheese
Chya, hey, It's money that we talking about
How you want it? Cash, credit or the Swiss account?
I'm playing with a big amount
Make more than your bitches count
Say there's a hotter nigga, where?
Here? Now? Point him out
Tell when you see me now you now we run shit
We about that action training, go
Nobody do it like my muthauckin' clique
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Big Sean]
I tell a bad bitch do whatever I say
My block behind me like I'm coming out the driveway
It's grind day, from Friday, to next Friday
I been up straight for nine days, I need a spa day
Yup, she trying get me that poo-tang
I might let my crew bang, my crew deeper than Wu Tang
I'm rolling with... fuck I'm saying? Girl, you know my crew name
You know 2 Chainz? Scrrr! I'm pulling up in that Bruce Wayne
But I'm the fucking villain, man, they kneeling when I'm walking in the building
Freaky women I be feeling from the bank accounts I'm filling
What a feeling, ah man, they gotta be
Young player from the D that's killing everything that he see for the dough
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
Yeah, I'm talking Ye, yeah, I'm talking Rih
Yeah, I'm talking B, nigga, I'm talking me
Yeah, I'm talking bossy, I ain't talking Kelis
Your money too short, you can't be talking to me
Yeah, I'm talking LeBron, we ball in our family tree
G.O.O.D. Music drug-dealing cousin, ain't nothing fuckin' with we, me
Turn that 62 to 125, 125 to a 250
250 to a half a million, ain't nothin' nobody can do with me
Now who with me? ¡Vámonos! Call me Hov or Jefe
Translation: I'm the shit, least that what my neck say
Least that what my check say, lost my homie for a decade
Nigga down for like 12 years, ain't hug his son since the second grade
He never told. Who we gonna tell? We top of the totem pole
It's the Dream Team meets the Supreme Team
And all our eyes green it only means one thing
You ain't fucking with the clique
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
Break records at Louis, ate breakfast at Gucci
My girl a superstar all from a home movie
Bow on our arrival - the un-American idols
What niggas did in Paris, got 'em hanging off the Eiffel
Yeah I'm talking business, we talking CIA
I'm talking George Tenet, I seen him the other day
He asked me about my Maybach, think he had the same
Except mine tinted and his might have been rented
You know white people get money, don't spend it
Or maybe they get money, buy a business
I rather buy 80 gold chains and go ign'ant
I know Spike Lee gone kill me but let me finish
Blame it on the pigment, we living no limits
Them gold Master P ceilings was just a figment
Of our imagination, MTV cribs
Now I'm looking at a crib right next to where TC lives
That's Tom Cruise, whatever she accuse
He wasn't really drunk he just had a frew brews
Pass the refreshments, a cool, cool beverage
Everything I do need a news crew's presence
Speedboat swerve, homie watch out for the waves
I'm way too black to burn from sun rays
So I just meditate at the home in Pompeii
About how I could build a new Rome in one day
Everytime I'm in Vegas they screaming like he's Elvis
But I just wanna design hotels and nail it
Shit is real, got me feeling Israelian
Like Bar Refaeli, Gisele, nah that's Brazilian
Went through, deep depression when my momma passed
Suicide, what kinda talk is that?
But I been talking to God for so long
And if you look at my life I guess he's talking back
Fucking with my clique
[Hook]


[Intro: James Fauntleroy]
What of the dollar you murdered for?
Is that the one fighting for your soul?
Or your brother's the one that you're running from?
But if you got money, fuck it, cause I want some
[Big Sean]
B-I-G
Who fucking with me?
Oh God!
[Hook: Big Sean]
Ain't nobody fucking with my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my muthafuckin
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
As I look around, they don't do it like my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
And all these bad bitches, man, they want the
They want the, they want the
[Verse One: The Notorious B.I.G]
I make yo' mouthpiece obese like Della Reese
When I release, you lose teeth like Lil' Cease
Nigga please, blood floods your dungarees
And that's just the half of my warpath
Laugh now cry later, I rhyme greater
Than the average playa hater, and spectators
Buy my CD twice; they see me in the streets
They be like, "Yo he nice, but that's on the low though"
Be the cats with no dough, tried to play me at my show
I pull out fo'-fo's, and go up in they clothes
Short-change niggas, snort 'caine niggas
Extortion came quicker, bought the Range nigga
Ya still tickle me, I used to be as strong as Ripple be
Til Lil' Cease crippled me
Now I play hard, like my girl's nipples be
The game sour like a pickle be, y'all know da rules
Move from BK to New Jeruz -- thinkin 'bout
All the planes we flew, bitches, we ran through
Now the year's new, I lay my game flat
I want my spot back, take two
Motherfuckers mad cause I blew, niggas envious
Too many niggas on my dick, shit strenuous
When my men bust, you just move with such stamina
Slugs missed ya, I ain't mad at cha (we ain't mad at cha)
Blood rushin', concussions, ain't nothin
Catch cases, come out fronting, smokin somethin
Sippin' White Russians, bitch in the Benz bumpin'
I laced it with the basic, six TVs a system
Knockin' Mase shit, face it, we hard to hit
Guard ya shit, 'fore I stick you, for your re-up
Wipe the pee up, lick shots, woke your seed up
Go in the ashtray, spark the weed up
Long kiss
[Hook]
[Verse Two: 2Pac]
I'll probably be punished for hard living, blind to the facts:
Thugs is convicts in God's prison, hands on the strap
Praying so Father please forgive me! Police be rushing when they see me
I flaunt it: America's Most Wanted, live on T.V
Life: pleasure and pain, stuck in this game, holler my name!
We all gon' die, we bleed through similar veins
Please explain to me, now. Don't panic when my guns burst
Heard the last jam, nigga? This one's worse!
My nigga Bone held the chrome 'til I came home
Thug Luv players tell these bitch niggas "bring it on"
I caught a plane out to Cleveland late last evening
To help my niggas clean up some niggas no longer breathin'
Now, who do you believe in? Hit the weed and breathe
It's a cold-ass world; niggas kill you in your sleep
Watch me until they stop me, bury, murder me or drop me
I got Thug Luv for my nationwide posse. Feel me!
[Hook:]
[Interlude: 50 Cent]
Haha...Hey Em, you know you're my favorite white boy, right?
[Verse Three: Eminem]
They think they're crazy, but they ain't crazy, let's face it
Shit, basically they're just playing sick
They ain't shit, they ain't saying shit, spray 'em 50
A to the K, get in the way I'll bring Dre and them with me
And turn this day into fucking mayhem, you staying with me?
Don't let me lose you, I'm not trying to confuse you
When I let loose with this Uzi and just shoot through your Isuzu
You get the message? Am I getting through to you?
You know what's coming, you motherfuckers don't even know, do you?
Take some Big and some Pac and you mix em up in a pot
Sprinkle a little Big L on top, what the fuck do you got?
You got the realest and illest killers tied up in a knot
The juggernauts of this rap shit, like it or not
It's like a fight to the top just to see who'd die for the spot
You put ya life in this, nothing like surviving a shot
Y'all know what time it is, soon as 50 signs on this doc
Shit what you know about death threats, cause I get a lot
Shady Records was eighty seconds away from the towers
Some cowards fucked with the wrong building, they meant to hit ours
Better evacuate all children, it's nuclear showers
There's nothing spookier
You now about to witness the power of...
[Interlude: Kanye West]
Of my clique...
[Hook]


[Intro: DJ Khaled (Kanye West)]
Kanye West!
(Swag King Cole)
DJ Khaled!
[Hook]
Can't a young nigga get money any more?
Tell PETA my mink is dragging on the floor
Can I have a bad bitch without no flaws
Come to meet me without no drawers?
[Verse 1]
Dinner with Anna Wintour,
 
racing with Anja Rubik
I told you mahfuckas it was more than the music
In the projects one day, to 
We done heard all that loud-ass talking, we're used to it
I'm from where shorties fucked up, double-cupped up
Might even kill somebody and YouTube it
To whoever think their words affect me is too stupid
And if you can do it better than me, then you do it!
We flyer than a parakeet,
 
floatin' with no parachute
Six thousand dollar pair of shoes,
 
we made it to the Paris news!
Don't talk about style cause I embarrass you
Shut the fuck up when you talk to me 'fore I embarrass you
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
And the whole industry want to fuck your old chick
Only nigga I got respect for is Wiz
And I'll admit, I had fell in love with Kim
Around the same time she had fell in love with him
Well that's cool, baby girl, do ya thang
Lucky I ain't had Jay drop him from the team
La Familia, Roc Nation
We in the building, we still keep it basement
We flyer than a parakeet,
 
floatin' with no parachute
Six thousand dollar pair of shoes, I made it to the Paris news
Don't talk about style cause I'll embarrass you
Shut the fuck up when you talk to me 'fore I embarrass you
GOOD Music, we fresh, we fresh
Anything else, we detest, detest
Bitch-ass niggas got ass and breasts
All that said, let me ask this quest'
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Don't talk to me 'bout style, nigga, I'll mothafuckin' embarrass you
Talking 'bout clothes, I'll mothafuckin' embarrass you
Hollering 'bout some hoes, I'll mothafuckin' embarrass you
Way too cold, I promise you'll need some Theraflu
(Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh) Get the Theraflu
(Uh, uh-uh, uh-uh, uh) Get the Theraflu
(Uh, uh-uh, uh-uh, uh, uh-uh, uh-uh)
(Uh, uh-uh, uh-uh uh) Get the Theraflu
[Outro: DJ Pharris]
This Chicago, nigga
South Side, we in this bitch
East Side crazy, 
blow that loud
Low End,
 
39th,
 
The Ickes
47th Street, 
Garfield Park,
 
79th
Stony Island,
 
K-Town,
 
Wild 100's
This is Chi-Town, 
Dro City,
 The Village
Harvey World,
 O Block, 
64th and Normal
64th and King Drive,
 what up?
83rd, 
Cottage Grove,
 
the Gardens
This Chicago nigga!
The Dearborns, 55th, 
Cabrini-Green
Terror Town,
 West Side, 
Pocket Town
This Chicago!
Halsted to the Ida B. Wells
New York City, Atlanta, London Town
Chiraq Drillinoise
This DJ Pharris
Fuck around and get embarrassed


[Produced by Kanye West, No I.D., and Jeff Bhasker]
[Verse 1]
On lonely nights, I start to fade
Her love is a thousand miles away
[Hook]
Memories made in the coldest winter
Goodbye my friend,
 
will I ever love again?
Memories made in the coldest winter
[Verse 2]
It's 4 a.m. and I can't sleep
Her love is all that I can see
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
If spring can take the snow away
Can it melt away all of our mistakes
[Hook 2]
Memories made in the coldest winter
Goodbye my friend, 
I won't ever love again, never again


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook: Babyface]
I'm not saying this to shake you up (Saying)
I'm just saying this to wake you up (Saying)
It's all good when we're making love
All I'm asking is don't take our love
For granted, cause granted my love for you is real
If you don't love me, somebody else will
Baby girl don't you, ever, get too, comfortable
[Verse 1]
To the left, to the left
If you wanna leave, be my guest you can step
Feeling Irreplaceable listening to Beyoncé
Well, okay, I put you out on your B'day
Hey, now you be rocking with Weezy
Bedroom in the bank, baby, we safe
I got game like EA
But I wanna let you play
And don't I treat you like soufflé
Don't I look at you like I see a new day
And don't I do what I do say
I'm through talking so I'mma let you 'Face
And let 'Ye do 'Ye
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Yeah, let me catch my breath
Talking 'bout leaving, and you ain't gone yet
And if you leave, leave correct
And I'mma send a jet to pick up the next
And if you leave, you leaving the best
So you will have to settle for less
And I am no Elliott Ness
I don't handcuff, I don't arrest
I do confess to the murder scene
Cause under the sheets I am a mess
Yes, baby you're blessed
Now just don't jump your nest, come on
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Yeah, it's no sweat, no sweat
I would never 1-2-3-4-get about
You, your love, your sex
You know I work you out like Bowflex
Ha-ha, I jokes no stress
Love, live life, proceed, progress
Make sure the neighbors get no rest
We can get together never disconnect
Yeah, your back, your neck
Funny how that song hasn't got old yet
To us, so let's project
You stay in, never incorrect, 'Face!
[Hook]
[Outro]
Word to God, my momma gon' this one, yeah
Yo, I think everybody gonna like this one, yeah, I got one
Thank you, Mr. West!
 
Carter Tres!


[Intro: Consequence]
Uh. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, uh
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
I need y'all to bounce for me. Uh. I need y'all to bounce for me. What? I need y'all, I need y'all
[Hook: Usher]
These are my confessions
Just when I thought I said all I could say
My chick on the side said she got one on the way
These are my confessions
Man I'm thrown and I don't know what to do
I guess I gotta give part 2 of my confessions
If I'm gonna tell it then I gotta tell it all
Damn near cried when I got that phone call
I'm so throwed and I don't know what to do
But to give you part 2 of my confessions
[Consequence talking over the hook]
Yeah, yo Chi. L-Roc. I got a confession to make. [?] running these streets. And that's with Kan Man. Kanye West. GLC. And of course your boy from the 1-9-3...Con to the quence. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Word up. Let's go
[Verse One: Consequence]
I got a mess that can't be mopped up
Chilling with my girl and guess who popped up
A chick from the road that says she's knocked up
Next thing I know your boy's locked up
Cause the one I rocked up is worse than upset
Wish I could take it back, reverse the blood test
Cause I was in the hood getting hooptie love
Till I hit the road and groupie love
Stacked all my paper got a crew with dubs
Now I'm the one that all the groupie's love
But how I'mma tell my secret to a pillow talker?
That's too caught up and she's still a stalker
My days are darker
Fate is altered
And me and baby girl ain't make the alter
But after all of that I done learned my lessons
Matter of fact, these are my confessions
[Hook]
[Kanye talking over the hook]
Yeah. Kanye To The...The Roc is in the building
[Verse Two: Kanye West]
My nigga Usher called me, said a chick caught him and she bawling, crying
Said she got his baby and he say she lying
But he can't deny it, he went raw dawg
Aw nah, hell nah
You don' up and done it man
I remember ol' girl, yep
Met her on tour
I seen your baby, he dance good as hell...it's yours!
You don't realize, you just made a ghetto girl's dreams
She don't need a ring cause she got you till he 18
And I know you want to know, was there room in them jeans
And you get ass so I won't assume you was fiendin'
But these girls is genius's, we thinking with our penis's
In my opinion, that's when they take us to the cleaners
[Hook]
[Verse Three: Usher]
Sittin here stuck on stupid, tryna figure out
When, what, and how I'mma let this come out of my mouth
Said it ain't gon' be easy
But I need to stop thinkin', contemplatin'
Be a man and get it over with (over with)
I'm ridin' in my whip
Racin' to her place
Talkin' to myself
Preparin' to tell her to her face
She open up the door and didn't want to come near me
I said "one second baby please hear me"
[Hook]
[GLC talking over hook]
Almost cried, but I'mma player so I do how I do it. I'm GLC. Hood Celebrity, know what I'm talkin' bout?
[Verse Four: GLC]
Baby I was broke and I was pimping 'em girl
She gave me her world and I ain't give her nothin'
I knew she was frontin'
You can ask for real, I'm GLC, I get it how I live
Weight on my shoulders like the Man Of Steel
I get it like a champ, I ran through her camp
I only hit her cause you wasn't there
Baby where was you at?
She bought me some sounds, bought me an ounce
I ain't bought nothing, I ain't high or nothin'
Last time you said I was trying to hit your cousin
Until I told you I wasn't
Baby I'm sorry for the pain impression
Let me replace it with pleasure
If you gon' cry don't ask them questions
Let's listen to Usher, that's my confession
[Hook]


[Intro: Usher]
Baby I know we said it's best we don't talk no more
But I got to get this off my chest about all the shit I've been hearing babe I
I thought you were that ride or die
You will never leave my side
I even made you out to be the woman that I will be with for life I took in
Your kids did everything that you wanted me too
Heard about frontin' on radio and the fuse
If you were gonna tell it then you told instead of making me the bad guy
If you got nothing good to say then don't say nothing
Cause if I really start talking it'll be something
So you cheated, I cheated
So be it
We need to leave it alone
Move on
[Call waiting beeping]
[Usher] Hold up
[Operator] Hello, you got a collect call from Clinton Correctional Facility will you accept the charges?
[Usher] Yes, I'll accept it, what's up?
[Shyne - rapping on the phone]
Sittin' in my cell, head about to burst
Wouldn't be alive if I didn't shoot first
Had it made, sorry for the ricochet
But I'd be in the grave if I didn't let it spray
I never said that I was perfect
Nobody walking on this earth is
That night, I would've got murdered
If I ain't grab the ratchet and let them cowards have it
[JD]
Uh, listen up, listen up, listen up, world
Listen up, listen up, listen up, world
Uh, I gotta confess
This is the hottest remix I ever did in my life
So So Def
[Hook - Usher] (J.D.)
These are my confessions, just when I thought I said all I can say
My chick on the side said she got one on the way
These are my confessions, man I'm throwed and I don't know what to do
I guess I gotta give you part two of my confessions
If I'm gonna tell it then I gotta tell it all (all)
Damn near cried when I got that phone call (call)
I'm so throwed and I don't know what to do
But to give part two of my confessions
[JD]
If you got something to confess to right now step to the mic, Twista!
[Twista]
I confess about the incident when I was with a shorty in the 
Lexus Coupe
Ya homie said she saw me but she didn't have proof
But I knew I really should've just been tellin' you the truth
And I confess about the days
I was rollin' my 
Seville
 with the 
custom gold grill
I was in the field still lookin' for a thrill
And I knew it was bogus I should've kept it real
And I confess that just when I thought I could really try to get away
Or have another woman on the side
But I never knew it would catch up wit' a nigga one day
You gotta hear me girl, I done learned a lesson
If you stay wit' me then it'll be a blessin'
No stressin', it'll never be no guessin'
Cause I'm pourin' out my heart and these are my confessions
[Hook]
[Kanye West:]
Man, how did she bring it up? How did she break it down?
Man, you at the clinic? Dog, slow down that's your child
But if you keep it, then you gotta tell your girl you was cheatin'
And you went raw dog when you beat it
That's when she gon' tell you to beat it
You know it ain't y'all little secret, you famous you can't go nowhere
Cause everytime you go there, it's hoes there
So basically you and your girl over
I know when she broke the news you told her "Man, don't say that"
Matter fact like Pat don't say jack
Everytime a nigga sittin' on pay stacks
Things come up from way, way, way back
[Hook]
[JD]
Po!
 That's the boy Shyne, y'all
The boy on his way home, man
The boy on his way home, man!


[Produced by Kanye West & Jon Brion]
[Hook: Kanye West & Game]
That's that crack music nigga
That real black music nigga
(That's that crack music nigga)
(That real black music nigga)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
How we stop the Black Panthers?
Ronald Reagan cooked up an answer
You hear that? What Gil Scott was hearing
When our heroes or heroines got hooked on heroin
Crack raised the murder rate in D.C. and Maryland
We invested in that, it's like we got Merrill lynched
And we been hangin' from the same tree ever since
Sometimes I feel the music is the only medicine
So we, cook it, cut it, measure it, bag it
Sell it, the fiends cop it, nowadays they can't tell if
That's that good shit, we ain't sure man
Put the CD on your tongue, yeah that's pure man
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
From the place where the father's gone, the mothers is hardly home
And the madigon's lock us up in the Audy Home
How the Mexicans say, we just tryin to party holmes
They wanna pack us all in a box like styrofoam
Who gave Saddam anthrax?
George Bush got the answers
Back in the hood it's a different type of chemical
Arm & Hammer baking soda raised they own quota
Right when our soldiers, ran for the stove cause
Cause, dreams of being Hova
Went from bein a broke man to bein a dopeman
To bein the President, look there's hope man
This that inspiration for the Moes and the Folks man
Shorty come and see his momma straight overdosin
...and this is the soundtrack
This the type of music that you make when you 'round that
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
God, how could you let this happen *echoes*
[Hook x3]
[Outro: Malik Yusef]
Our Father, give us this day, our daily bread
Before the feds give us these days and take our daily bread
See I done did all this ol' bullshit
And to atone, I throw a lil' somethin somethin on the pulpit
We took that shit, measured it and then cooked that shit
And what we gave back was crack music
And now we ooze it through they nooks and crannies
So our mommas ain't got to be they cooks and nannies
And we gon' repo everything they ever took from granny
Now the former slaves trade hooks for Grammys
This dark diction has become America's addiction
Those who ain't even black use it
We gon' keep baggin up this here crack music


[Hook: Kanye West + Game]
That's that crack music nigga
That real black music nigga
(That's that crack music nigga)
(That real black music nigga)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
How we stop the Black Panthers?
Ronald Reagan cooked up an answer
You hear that? What Gil Scott was "Heron"
When our heroes or heroines got hooked on heroin
Crack, raised the murder rate in D.C. and Maryland
We, invested in that, it's like we got Merrill Lynched
And we been hangin from the same tree, ever since
Sometimes I feel the music is the only medicine
So we, cook it, cut it, measure it, bag it
Sell it, the fiends, cop it, nowadays they can't tell if
That's that good shit, we ain't sure man
Put the CD on your tongue, yeah that's pure man
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
From the place where the father's gone, the mothers is hardly home
And the madigon's lock us up in the Audy Home
How the Mexicans say, we just tryin to party holmes
They wanna pack us all in a box like styrofoam
Who gave Saddam anthrax?
George Bush got the answers
Back in the hood it's a different type of chemical
Arm & Hammer baking soda raised they own quota
Right when our soldiers, ran for the stove cause
Cause, dreams of being Hova
Went from bein a broke man to bein a dopeman
To bein the President, look there's hope man
This that inspiration for the Moes and the Folks man
Shorty come and see his momma straight overdosin
...and this is the soundtrack
This the type of music that you make when you 'round that
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
God, how could you let this happen *echoes*
[Verse 3: Game]
I'm comin' from the the the projects
Air 1's crackin' the ground
It's Kanye with that immaculate sound
Im right here ain't no backing me down
Hands on the hot hood Compton sheriff's pattin' me down
They wanna know about the Summerjam beef with 50
So I reach for my license inside my Dickies
Mr. officer after this autograph for ya daughter
Can you back the fuck away from my Aston Martin
I got places to see and people to do
Teairra Mari, I fucked Brooke Valentine too
This is crack music, I break her back to it
And tommorrow she can take my name and tattoo it
She see the hood in a nigga
If she look hard enough she can see the fuck[?] in a nigga
She ain't mad she know what's good in a nigga
Matter of fact she know that it's just rap and the fact is
[Hook x3]
[Outro: Malik Yusef]
Our Father, give us this day, our daily bread
Before the feds give us these days and take our daily bread
See I done did all this ol' bullshit
And to atone, I throw a lil' somethin somethin on the pulpit
We took that shit, measured it and then cooked that shit
And what we gave back was crack music
And now we ooze it through they nooks and crannies
So our mommas ain't got to be they cooks and nannies
And we gon' repo everything they ever took from granny
Now the former slaves trade hooks for Grammys
This dark diction has become America's addiction
Those who ain't even black use it
We gon' keep baggin up this here crack music


[Produced by M16, Anomaly, and Kanye West]
[Hook]
Cydel Young they feel me in Belgium
And when I die I'm going back to the heavens I fell from
I fell from
Back to the heavens I fell from
Cydel Young they feel me in Belgium
And when I die I'm going back to the heavens I fell from
Back to the heavens I fell from
Back (back) to the heavens I fell from
[Verse 1: CyHi The Prynce]
My father named me Cydel
My momma pushed out a diamond
Took out the del off my name and put the H-I behind it
That's CY-HI short for your HIghness
Then I added The Prynce
So you know where my mind is
My sister asked me when I'm goin' to get married
When it's affordable to get my wife six carats
Supposed to have a brother but my mother had a miscarriage
So every blessing he was supposed to get i'll inherit
I really wanted to be an athlete
So, it's the Olympics every time me and the track meet
I'm so ahead of my time I'm finna lap me
I know the Lord is Thy Shepherd though I'm the black sheep
I ain't gotta act street you can ask B
It was nothing to get off of key
Like a wack beat
I hit the gas let the 'lac creep
My partner riding shotgun same thing was in the back seat
I ain't worried bout niggas sayin' I'm wack
Cuz when I was in the traps
Some niggas really tried to wack me
Ya don't really know the feeling
Prynce ain't from Queens
But I've seen supreme dope dealing
King pin shit in this ring there's no squealing
Disciplined gangsters no women no children
At the age of nineteen I had the coupe no ceiling
Selling fruit while I'm bumping number two Lord Willin
If I ever make a million
I don't want to lose it all; Curt Schillings
I got a homie who didn't deserve prison
Tried to tell him that the man he killed wasn't worth killing
But that's the life of a young goon
When it rains it pours caught in a monsoon
I'm hoping that his day come soon
Memories of us rapping beatin' on the table in the lunchroom
[Hook]
Cydel Young they feel me in Belgium
And when I die I'm going back to the heavens I fell from
I fell from
Back to the heavens I fell from
Cydel Young they feel me in Belgium
And when I die I'm going back to the heavens I fell from
Back to the heavens I fell from
Back (back) to the heavens I fell from
[Verse 2: CyHi The Prynce]
Cydel Young homie I'm seldom
Seen in the club because i go to sleep like at 12 sumthin'
I used to sell plums
I'm used to the bail bonds
Man you niggas actin' like going to jail's fun
When Butchy got shot I instantly felt numb
We was like fifteen when we first held guns
But beef can get you killed though
At least for twenty years when you gotta lot at stake
It's gotta be well done
Tales from a place where ain't no fair ones
This my gift from God my nigga you welcome
A buncha rappers bootleggin' my rhymes
These niggas tryinta illegally sell rum
But they liquor is cheap
Rapping like I’m in a gym
Working on my figure of speech
I'm going back to the original me
Back before all my friends shitted on me
Playin' sideline bus in the middle the street
Before my girlfriend became a miserable freak
One man's trash is another man's treasure
And I mean that, literally
I was cool with the killers and thieves
Got black eyes from fist fights they tried to Forest Whitaker me
But I survived shorty I survived
I knew I would be famous my nigga I'm not surprised
Came a long way from hamburgers and apple pies
I was so broke sometimes I couldn't ask for fries
But I knew that God had a plan for me
All the problems in my life made a man of me
Took three bags to my folks at Scott-dale
Came back with like twenty grand on me
Call me watcha want
Just don't put your hands on me
I'm Cyhi but everybody on Redan know me as
[Hook]
Cydel Young they feel me in Belgium
And when I die I'm going back to the heavens I fell from
I fell from
Back to the heavens I fell from
Cydel Young they feel me in Belgium
And when I die I'm going back to the heavens I fell from
Back to the heavens I fell from
Back (back) to the heavens I fell from


[Hook: Kanye, Ryan Leslie, Kid Cudi and John Legend]
I got the world in my hands, the master plan
But I don’t know why I keep calling (why I keep calling)
All of these girls at my shows they loving me
But I don’t know why I keep 
calling
Why I keep calling you
All the models to the floor right now
[Kanye West]
I’m in my Christian Dior with a Veronica Webb
Noemie Lenoir,
 
Chanel,
 
Sessilee Lopez
Arlenis Sosa,
 
Selita Ebanks
Grew up on Mobb Deep, speak that Jourdan Dunn language
Make a phone call, out to Joan Smalls
I wonder how it feel to lower Stone's walls
Jessica Gomes, y'all, I would damage her
And see if Jessica Stam got the stamina
I’m in the car with Leo and the Benz swerve
I heard Bar
 
was friends with Esti Ginzburg
Coco Rocha,
 
Kate Mimosa
Alessandra Ambrosio,
 
Anja Rubik
Get Olga Kurylenko, tell her I’m very single
Abbey Lee too, I’m a freak boo
I’m wilding, I’m on a thousand
I wanna see Irina Shayk
 
next to Doutzen
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
Christian Dior denim flow
I told her I’m trying to eat out
So what we going to dinner for?
[Pusha T]
Miami nights on the search for some T and A
Trying to hide what’s obvious to see in me
We conversate a bit about your DNA
And my salmon-colored suits from the VMAs
Oh, you was watching? Who the fuck wasn’t?
Me skip across that stage in 5 dozen
 
EGGGHCK
Yeah, six grand for a minute's time
Italian Vogue style a nigga for a minute rhyme
Let's be clear and let's be fair
The best things in music’s being offered here
It's a round table full of bosses here
Still giving you it all like the coffin's near
[Hook]
[Ryan Leslie]
It’s time for a lesson in model behavior
Damn, look at all the bad bitches I gave you
Man I can see the flaws to your flavor
Look like Wonder Woman and still need a savior
Maybe it's a billionaire,
 
maybe it's the cocaine
I done seen drugs and money run the whole game
A good girl lost in the city life
Agent Provocateur, hold them titties right
I'm 
 of hoes galore
Give my girl a Newport cause she's smoking yours
I'm the authority of model seniority
They call me Les but they all need more of me
[Lloyd Banks]
Handcraft material, champagne for cereal
Shorty stole my heart, criminal, my lucky charm
Fly clothes and Lear shows the kind of stuff we on
Stuff all my problems in that bong and I’m puffing strong
I been locked in my way of thinking, now my cuffs are gone
Must’ve been the liquor talking, I’m begging the cups, c'mon
Might come off as irregular, I come in custom form
T-G-I-F, GT breeze, my hustler’s poem
My sound’s full-grown, reminds me of my favorite chronic
 
(Kush)
Ball like a SuperSonic, make the haters vomit (Uh)
Nigga, make some money ‘fore you make a comment
I meant to snap a while ago, but who knows where the time went?
Prolly dime chicks, whips with a Diddy
Now I’m back like a nine milli
, 
running New York City
See me clearly through the storm
The world’s mine, sits pretty in my palm
Chandon as we continue on
[Hook]
[Kid Cudi]
Niggas think they know only got half of the story
They don't really know what's in my head fucking with me
How can I be better?
I could start with just the basics
Dior, Dior, galore, I love the cut
I seem to have forgotten that I’m off the looney
To the people who don't know Cud, know what?
Rose gold presidential on my bony wrist
Took my ma to Chanel,
 
had Elsie the stunner
She got haters, some in the fam made us
But they don’t really matter, we escape them with our paper
Hey ya, I’m on my André 3000
I’m all good now, a nigga don’t need no counseling
Woke up in the room and my mojo was active
Looks from the hoes that were more than likely passive
Back then-
-let me not reflect on the old shit
I’m on to the new act, on to my new script
Bitches better have they thoughts before approaching
I done heard it all, baby, save it for them other niggas
Do things off-beat for a living, haters copy, I'm the image
Haters copy, I'm the image


[Produced by RZA, No I.D., Kanye West, Mike Dean, and Jeff Bhasker]
[Intro: Nicki Minaj]
You might think you’ve peeped the scene
You haven’t, the real one’s far too mean
The watered down one, the one you know
Was made up centuries ago
They made it sound all wack and corny
Yes, it’s awful, blasted boring
Twisted fictions, sick addictions
Well, gather ‘round children, zip it, listen:
[Hook: Teyana Taylor]
Can we get much higher? So high
Oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh
[Verse 1]
I fantasized 'bout this back in Chicago
Mercy, mercy me, that Murcielago
That's me, the first year that I blow
How you say broke in Spanish? Me no hablo
Me drown sorrow in that Diablo
Me found bravery in my bravado
DJs need to listen to the models
"You ain't got no fuckin' Yeezy in your Serato?"
(You ain't got no Yeezy, nigga?)
Stupid, but what the hell do I know?
I'm just a Chi-town nigga with a Nas flow
And my chick in that new Phoebe Philo
So much head, I woke up in Sleepy Hollow
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Look like a fat booty Celine Dion
Sex is on fire, I'm the King of Leon-a Lewis
Beyond the truest,
 
hey, teacher, teacher
Tell me how do you respond to students?
And refresh the page and restart the memory?
Respark the soul and rebuild the energy?
We stopped the ignorance, we killed the enemies
Sorry for the night demons still visit me
The plan was to drink until the pain over
But what's worse, the pain or the hangover?
Fresh air, rollin' down the window
Too many Urkels on your team, that's why your wins low
Don't make me pull the toys out, huh
Don't make me pull the toys
And fire up the engines, huh
And then they make noise
[Hook]
[Bridge: Bon Iver & Kanye West]
At the mall, there was a seance
Just kids, no parents
Then the sky filled with herons
(I saw the devil) in a Chrysler LeBaron
And the hell, it wouldn't spare us
And the fires did declare us
But after that, took pills, kissed an heiress
And woke up back in Paris
[Hook]


[Lil Wayne]
{whispers} 
Dedication 2...
[DJ Drama]
Alright I think you ready this time
Y'all know what I come here for
Call me the iPod King
Call me Mr. Thanksgiving
Call me whatever the fuck you want
[Nancy Sinatra]
Bang bang, I shot you down
Bang bang, you hit the ground
Bang bang, that awful sound
Bang bang... I used to shoot you down
[Lil Wayne]
Hah, 
Dedication 2,
 
that's right, you already...
Wake up motherfuckers it's Weezy, you got a problem?
Heads to them Katrina victims, we still mobbin'
Shiny black coupe at night look like a goblin
AK on the backseat,
 
baby it's so-
{*record rewinds*}
Wake up motherfuckers it's Weezy, you got a problem?
Heads to them Katrina victims, we still mobbin
Shiny black coupe at night look like a goblin
AK on the backseat, baby it's so
 
vivrant
Watch me let it spray like a hydrant,
 
can't dodge it
You not gettin' wet in the rain is not logic
She won't give that pussy to Wayne, I'm so obliged just
Live and direct from inside of ya bitch body
And, hi there ho what do ya know I'm ridin'
In the same streets my pops died in
, I got 'em and
I get that money tell my momma I'm grindin'
And I'll be coming home with our future in my pocket
Shoot you if you block it,
 
leave a nigga awkward
Murder the adults and let the kids get adopted
Sit it in the pot and watch me rise to power
Gettin' out twenty American pies an hour
Goddamn, excuse ma'am but I'm the man
And you better put my money in my hand, stop playin'!
Got ends, no friends
, 
just brothers one color
And I spread the motherfucker all over your room shutters
Yeah, they knew better I'm two letters
I'm like M.J. and 2-3
 and O.G., 
yeah I'm low-key
Cause niggas and bitches is police
I roll leaf,
 
patching up the game's slow leak
I'm Weezy baby!
Lemme catch my breath... {breathing}
Ok...
Pussy-ass.. pussy-ass.. pussy-ass.. pussy..
Pussy-ass niggas, fake fraud-ass niggas
Tryna save the past, SIM card-ass niggas
Them broads laugh at ya, them niggas won't kill ya
And them niggas that's with ya, could die right with ya
I'll be shootin everything up in my eyesight mister
I say I might miss ya, but lil' FeFe gon' hit ya
And lil' Currensy'll split ya, Mack Maine'll straight flip ya
Let Taz Po ship ya, then we'll all forget ya
I'm sittin' in the kitchen like "How can we all get richer?"
Got paint on my hands from painting the perfect picture
Then I tell lil' Josh, roll up the perfect Swisher
God damn the hurricane, to the weed man, we miss ya
I'm the best just listen, 
I ain't what the game been missin'
That's my nigga Juelz,
 
I been here since twelve
Ten shells, let 'em save themselves
Fuck them niggas and they pals, pal, pow!


[Chris Brown]
All that bullshit's for the birds
You ain't nothing but a vulture
Always hopin' for the worst
Waiting for me to fuck up
You’ll regret the day when I find another girl, yeah
Who knows just what I need, she knows just what I mean
When I tell her keep it drama free
Chuckin up them (deuces)
I told you that I'm leaving (deuces)
I know you're mad, but so what
I wish you best of luck
And now I'm finna throw them deuces up
[Drake]
What you mean I ain’t call you? I hit you when I landed
I’m waiting in my hotel room
Seems like we're arguing more and it’s getting less romantic
Yeah, I think she’ll be able to tell soon
But I'll fuck you right, I will, I fuck you right, I will
I’ll fuck you like no one has ever, ever made you feel
I mean this part of our relationship's amazing still
I might just put up with the arguing and stay, for real
You looking bad, girl for goodness sakes
You with all those curves, and me without no brakes, ooh
I’m willing to work it out however long it takes you
You feel like you miss those happy days well girl that makes two of us
Our timing is wrong
Your friends always tying up every line on your phone
Yeah but tell them bitches that you’ll always be my missus
And the hardest part about the fucking business is minding your own
And every time I try and break it off
We just yell until we tired then I break you off
It’s useless all this fighting let's get past it now
Even when I throw them deuces, you just send it back around
[T.I.]
Your wrist and fingers glisten; ice cold like Michigan
Look at what we livin' in, here we go with this again
I just keep on talking but I guess that you ain't listening
Rather run around with them nothing ass bitches then
Go on, got me hot, smoking like a chimney
We used to be best friends, now it seems we finna be enemies
Deep inside it’s killing me, but soon its gon' be killing you
To see her in that two seater, now that's gon' hurt your feelings, boo
Ah ha, didn’t you think you would be over me
By now so you go sleeping with them clowns, they are no relief
She spoke her piece, I know, capisce
So love must be let go, released
Into the wind, again, again. and deuces I must throw ya peace
[Kanye West]
You know what, yo? You a bitch
You should have a travel agent, cause you a trip
You should make your own toilet tissue since you the shit
But all you got is some fucking issues you fucking bitch
I hate niggas, but I love your mom
Give her a kiss for me, her second son
Get your mind right baby or get your shit together
You gonna be hot a little while, I’mma be rich forever
Girl seducers, they come in deuces
But when I cut 'em off they always become a nuisance
Niggas take my old flows and they take my old swag
He just took my old bitch and turn it to his new bitch
I’m stupid but I won’t get my drama on
What I’m dealing with is too real for me to comment on
Jay finally got it through my head not to run my mouth
So when you talk 'bout “you know who” I don’t know who you talking 'bout
[Fabolous]
According to my old bitch I be on some new shit
She was on some old shit, now I got a new bitch
Think I give two shits? you ain't gonna do shit
Meet my two fingers, intro-deuces
If you knew better you’d do better
Wanna get the middle finger, but I got two better
[Chris Brown]
So you gonna diss me even though you know it’s wrong
Know you gonna
[Drake]
(miss me a little when I’m gone)
[Fabolous]
Drizzy voice,
 
now I’m ghost baby
Four door Rizzy Royce
Tryna work it out might be a bad business choice
I’m bout my business boys, plus I make paper
Come on that's old news, yesterday’s paper
Oh, you talking, what about?
If it ain't how I kept you studded out
You might as well shut ya mouth
You’ll never score another me, I’ll shut it out
Act like there’s gum in your hair girl, cut it out
[Rick Ross]
Got a pocket full of hundreds
She the only one is missing
Got a bucket full of ice, and a watch to go with it
Got a racing Lamborghini have my homies scared to drive
Haters better put their head down they know that boy be fly
All the charter planes, now I’m talking ballers slang
R.O.Z.A.Y. on that wall in the hall of fame
I let my denim sag #red Louis belt
How can you love me baby, first you gotta love yourself
[Andre 3000]
The farewell email from a female
But I’m a playa, ain't gonna tell you all the details
What it entails is hard to say like selling seashells
By the seashore,
 
but she’s not a bore
But neither a whore who needs to know more
The kind you can’t ignore but want to open the door for
Or run in your favorite store and leave with all them shopping bags and half of it ain't yours
I did things for, ain't rich ain't poor
I want it to do more but hell I just ain't know her
Well enough to know if this is all she came for
But enough to know tonight excited she came four
Times to my cousins house to see if I was there
Get ya minds out the gutter man
We out here tryna have a good time
And here I am, all heavy with the words where
Somebody that's a nerd, likely fast forward
But shit they asked for it
It’s hard to throw up them deuces cause when you know it’s juicy
You start to sound like Confucius when making up excuses
Chase the Cabooses until the track gone
I gotta find me a new locomotive, stop making sad songs
[Hook: Chris Brown]
I'm on some new shit
I'm chucking my deuces up to her
I'm moving on to something better, better, better
No more trying to make it work
You made me wanna say bye bye, say bye bye, say bye bye to her; to her


[Produced by Bink! and Mike Dean]
[Intro]
I love it though
I love it though, y'know?
[Hook]
Put your hands to the constellations
The way you look should be a sin, you my sinsation
I know I’m preaching to the congregation
We love Jesus but you done learned a lot from Satan
I mean a nigga did a lot of waiting
We ain't married but tonight I need some consummation
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
May the Lord forgive us,
 
may the gods be with us
In that magic hour I seen good Christians
Make rash decisions,
 
oh she do it
What happened to religion? Oh, she lose it
She putting on her make up, she casually allure
Text message break ups, the casualty of tour
How she gon' wake up and not love me no more?
I thought I was the asshole, I guess it’s rubbing off
Hood phenomenon, the LeBron of rhyme
Hard to be humble when you stunting on a jumbotron
I’m looking at her like this what you really wanted,
 
huh?
Why we argue anyway? Oh, I forgot, it's summertime
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
When the sun go down it's the magic hour
And outta all the colors that'll fill up the skies
You got green on your mind, I can see it in your eyes
Why you standing there with your face screwed up?
Don’t leave while you're hot that’s how Mase screwed up
Throwing shit around, the whole place screwed up
Maybe I should call Mase so he could pray for us
I hit the Jamaican spot, at the bar, take a seat
I ordered the jerk, she said you are what you eat
You see I always loved that sense of humor
But tonight you should have seen how quiet the room was
The Lyor Cohen
 
of Dior Homme
That's "Dior Homme", not "Dior, homie"
The crib 
 could it be more Tony?
You love me for me? Could you be more phony?
[Hook]
Put your hands to the constellations
The way you look should be a sin, you my sensation
Haven’t said a word to me this evening
Cat got your tongue?
[Verse 3: Rick Ross]
Lookin' at my bitch I bet she give your ass a bone
Lookin' at my wrist it'll turn your ass to stone
Stretch limousine, sipping Rosé all alone
Double-headed monster with a mind of his own
Cherry red chariot,
 
excess is just my character
All black tux, nigga shoes lavender
I never needed acceptance from all you outsiders
Had cyphers with Yeezy before his mouth wired
Before his jaw shattered
 
climbing up the Lord's ladder
We still speeding running signs like they don't matter
Uh, hater talking never made me mad
Never that when I'm in my favorite papertag
Therefore G4's at the Clearport
When it come to tools fool I'm a Pep Boy
When it came to dope I was quick to export
Never tired of ballin' so it's on to the next sport
New Mercedes sedan,
 
the Lex sport
So many cars DMV thought it was mail fraud
Different traps, I was getting mail from
Polk County, Jacksonville, rep Melbourne
Whole clique's appetite had tapeworms
Spinning Teddy Pendergrass vinyl as my J burns
I shed a tear before the night's over
God bless the man I put this ice over
Getting 2Pac money twice over
Still a real nigga, red Coogi sweater, dice roller
I'm making love to the angel of death
Catching feelings never stumble,
 
retracing my steps


[Intro: Ryan Leslie]
Yeah! 
They tried to put me in the box!
It's impossible! R. Les!!! (Oh Yeah!)
And this time it's all or nothin (I said it's real!!! Ohhhhhh!!! Yeah!)
Listen!
[Verse 1: Ryan Leslie]
I'm a take ya ten rounds like a boxer baby
Show you how I put it down with rocks on lady
Promise ya ask ya when I'm done for more
I'm a switch it up and make life comfortable
I'm a be the reason your not sleepin baby
I'm a invade the thoughts you keepin baby
If your still not convinced I'll tell you more
Make you forget the way you felt before
Uh Oh! 
I can be your wake up reason daily
You could be my first and leadin lady
I'm a make you happy that you waited, for me to settle down
Uh Oh! I'm ready and I'm not afraid to say it
I'm tired of the game already played it
I'm over all them other girls I dated
I'll tell you what you are
[Hook: Ryan Leslie]
Your my diiiiiiamond girl
Your the one, I put the rock on
Your my diiiiiiamond girl
Your the one that I quit the game for
Your my diiiiiiamond girl
Your the one, I put the rock on
Your my diiiiiiamond girl
Your the reason I quit the game for
[Verse 2: Ryan Leslie]
I can't explain just how much you shine
Give me your heart I'll give you mine
I'm puttin my future on the line
Baby it's just you, and I!!!!!!!!
From this day on let's make a deal
I'll stay true you keep it real
Don't be shy 'bout how you feel
Baby don't be shy! HEY!!!!!!
Uh Oh! I can be your wake up reason daily
You could be my first and leadin lady
I'm a make you happy that you waited, for me to settle down
Uh Oh! I'm ready and I'm not afraid to say it
I'm tired of the game already played it
I'm over all them other girls I dated
I'll tell you what you are
[Hook: Ryan Leslie]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I'm in the club doin the same old two step
While Omegas doin the same old Q step
I have my money on my mind she was thinkin green
She's a pledge AKA she was kickn green
I want a good girl she want a gentleman
We sayin the same thing like a synonym
I wasn't really spittin game I was scrimmagin
My penmanship is so hard I need censorship
I'm a Chicagoian till Chicago end
Till we blow like Chicago wind
I don't know what's better, gettin laid or gettin paid
I just know I'm gettin one the other's gettin away
[Hook: Ryan Leslie]
[Outro: Ryan Leslie]
Yeah! (Your my diamond girl) I know you wanna hear it again
(Yeah!) Run the record back (Your my diamond) R. Les! Yeah!
Uh! Just rock with it (Your my diamond) (It's Next Selection)
(Your my diamond girl!)


[Verse One: Kanye West]
Aye, Aye, Uh
You love my diamonds don't ya
Love the way a nigga shinin' don't you
Baby what's your dis-position?
Have you ever tried this position?
You my dream girl from the posters
That I thought I would never get close to
In the back limousines with chauffeurs
Right next to the Testarossas
It's funny how all the jewelery
Just gets your cat so purry
And it look good altogether
They say they all forever
You love my diamonds don't ya
That I bought from all this rhymin'
But I know you'll never love me
You'll only love my diamonds
[Hook]
When I love baby
I'm gonna love ya, just like I love my diamonds
Diamonds, Diamonds
And when I wake up every night
(Boooooooy)
Will we be shining
Diamonds, Diamonds
I treasure you
Cherish you
When you rub my body
(oooooooohhhh)
Cause people are together
Diamonds are forever
Ice blue baby
(oooooooohhhh)
When I love you like my diamonds
Diamonds, Diamonds
[Verse 2]
Like every girl
I'm into fabulous things
Like oyster pearls, and pretty diamond rings
But you're my precious possession
I rock you 24/7
I do (I do), I do (do)
All my accessories, yea I'll give em' up
I'd even trade them in for your love
And the ain't no way
I'm giving you away
You're my d-d-diamond daddy
And I just got to have you
[Bridge]
You sexy, you Fine
I'm so glad your mine
You sexy, you fine
He's my one of a kind
You sexy, you fine
I'm so glad your mine
You sexy, you fine
He's my one of a kind
[Hook: Repeat x2]
(oooooooohhhh)
When I love you like my diamonds
Diamonds, Diamonds
(When I love you baby)


[Produced by Kanye West, Devo Springsteen and Jon Brion]
[Intro: Shirley Bassey]
Diamonds are forever
They won't leave in the night
I've no fear that they might
Desert me
[Hook]
Diamonds are forever (forever, forever)
Throw your diamonds in the sky if you feel the vibe
Diamonds are forever (forever, forever, forever)
The Roc is still alive every time I rhyme
Forever ever? Forever ever? Ever, ever? Ever, ever?
Ever, ever? Ever, ever? Ever, ever?
[Verse 1]
Close your eyes and imagine,
 feel the 
magic
Vegas on acid,
 seen through 
Yves St. Laurent glasses
And I've realized that I've arrived
Cause it take more than a magazine to kill my Vibe
Does he write his own rhymes, well sort of, I think 'em
That mean I forgot better shit than you ever thought of
Damn, is he really that caught up?
I ask if you talked about classics, do my name get brought up?
I remember I couldn't afford a Ford Escort
Or even a four-track recorder
So it's only right that I let the top drop on a drop-top Porsche
It's for yourself, that's important
If your stripper name "Porscha" and you get tips from many men
Then your fat friend, her nickname is "Minivan"
Excuse me, that's just the Henny, man
I smoke, I drink, I'm supposed to stop, I can't
 because
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I was sick about awards, couldn't nobody cure me
Only playa that got robbed but kept all his jewelry
Alicia Keys tried to talk some sense in him
30 minutes later sein' there's no convincin' him
What more could you ask for? The international asshole
Who complain about what he is owed?
And throw a tantrum like he is 3 years old
You gotta love it though somebody still speaks from his soul
And wouldn't change by the change, or the game, or the fame
When he came, in the game, he made his own lane
Now all I need is y'all to pronounce my name
It's Kanye, but some of my plaques, they still say Kayne
Got family in the D, Kin-folk from Motown
Back in the Chi, them Folks ain't from Moe Town
Life movin' too fast I need to slow down
Girl ain't give me no ass, ya need to go down
My father been said I need Jesus
So he took me to church and let the water wash over my caesar
The preacher said we need leaders
Right then my body got still like a paraplegic
You know who you call, you got a message, then leave it
The Roc stand tall and you would never believe it
Take your diamonds and throw 'em up like you bulimic
Yeah, the beat cold but the flow is anemic
After debris settles and the dust get swept off
Big K pick up where young Hov left off
Right when magazines wrote Kanye West off
I dropped my new shit, it sound like the best of
A&R's lookin' like, "Pssh, we messed up"
Grammy night, damn right, we got dressed up
Bottle after bottle till we got messed up
In the studio, with Really Doe, yeah, he next up
People askin' me if I'm gon' give my chain back
That'll be the same day I give the game back
You know the next question dog: "Yo, where Dame at?"
This track the Indian dance to bring our reign back
"What's up with you and Jay, man, are y'all ok man?"
They pray for the death of our dynasty like "Amen"
Right here stands a man
With the power to make a diamond with his bare hands
[Hook]
[Outro]
Diamonds are forever (forever, forever)
Diamonds are forever (forever, forever, forever)


[Intro: Bizarre]
D-Twizzie back in this bitch!
"Eminem's buddies"
Buddy this, nigga
[Hook]
Welcome to D12 world!
Where you can get anything from sex, X, to girls
Welcome to D12 World!
Prostitutes and guns, so fuck the real world
[Bizarre]
Fuck the silly shit
, 
I pull a mac milli quick
When D12 rock his summer it's over with
All these bitches and all these hoes
What the fuck you looking at me for? (You, nigga!)
Oh yeah, you like my chain
Want to get your skinny ass up in the Range
I like my bitches raspy and nasty
I like a fat and nasty bitch named Ashley
[Swift]
I slide you dope without no procrastination
And you can watch me fuck up your imagination
I'm always getting drunk, and 
I fiend to smack hoes
I mean it, 
I leave them screaming like pterodactyls
This is our world
[Kuniva]
We'd love to smack you
Hot lead flying with debris and schrapnel
Ripping you to shreds, fucking up your tattoo
Break into your crib, take your records and plaques too
[Kon Artis]
D12 is, that's who! Got you limping
Still popping something purple
 
with a bottle of gin, bitch!
I fuck up your kinship,
 I lie in this shit
Peep, I stole your mom's jeep and crashed into my street
[Proof]
Crazy deranged,
 
of course we Shady's gang
Of course we wear clothes with holes and blood stains
No doubt, we shoot badges, born with ski masks
Chew on shroom, rainbows, and pee acid
[Hook]
Welcome to D12 World!
Where you can get anything from sex, X, to girls
Welcome to D12 World!
Prostitutes and guns, so fuck the real world
Welcome to D12 World!
(Kon Artis Singing)
Welcome to D12 World!
Aaaaahhhhh!!!
[Kuniva]
Niggas be talking shit, but they laying slump now
I graduated from techs, I grip a pump now
I used to be nice, but nice don't cut it
Now I open they wig, if they don't uppen my budget, bitch!
[Bizarre]
Them D12 niggas, they be quick to blast
I'll take my shower cap off
, and whup your ass
Stepping to us, you can't be the smartest
Cause you'll get dropped like an Aftermath artist
[Swift]
They catch me mingling by a bitch with class
When she turn I'll be sprinkling some shit in her glass
What part of this you can't understand?
I'll emmilliate a man, worse then making a band
(Kuniva: Don't be mistaking that man)
(Kon Artis: He'll invite you over)
Real fast, and pass your ass a glass of 
Ebola
[Kon Artis]
I've been doing this for a minute
And I'm starting to see my little brother Caleb
Look more like a star then me
That's why I just started working out
Man, this shit ain't working out
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West, Devo Springsteen and Jon Brion]
[Hook - Kanye West + Shirley Bassey sample]
(Diamonds are forever)
Throw your diamonds in the sky if you feel the vibe
The Roc is still alive every time I rhyme
(Forever..)
[Verse 1]
Good mornin', this ain't Vietnam still
People lose hands, legs, arms, for real
Little was known on Sierra Leone
And how it connect to the diamonds we own
When I spit the diamonds in this song
I ain't talkin' about the ones that be glowin'
I'm talkin' about Roc-a-Fella, my home
My chain, these ain't conflict diamonds
Is they Jacob? Don't lie to me, man
See, a part of me sayin' "Keep shining"
How? When I know what a blood diamond is
Though it's thousands of miles away
Sierra Leone connects to what we go through today
Over here it's a drug trade, we die from drugs
Over there they die from what we buy from drugs
The diamonds, the chains, the bracelets, the charmses
I thought my Jesus-piece was so harmless
Til I seen a picture of a shorty armless
And here's the conflict
It's in a black person soul to rock that gold
Spend your whole life trying to get that ice
Bought a Polo rugby, it looks so nice
How can somethin' so wrong make me feel so right?
Right? 'Fore I beat myself up like Ike
You can still throw your Roc-a-Fella diamond tonight
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
People asking me "Is I'm gon' give my chain back?"
That'll be the same day I give the game back
You know the next question dog, "Yo where Dame at?"
This track the Indian dance that bring our rain back
"What's up with you and Jay, man?
Are y'all okay man?"
[Jay-Z]
Yup, I got it from here 'Ye, damn
The chain remains, the gang is intact
The name is mine, I'll take blame for that
The pressure's on, but guess who ain't gonna crack?
Haha, pardon me, I had to laugh at that
How could you falter when you're the Rock of Gibraltar?
I had to get off the boat so I could walk on water
This ain't no tall order, this is nothin' to me
Difficult takes a day, impossible takes a week
I do this in my sleep
I sold kilos of coke, I'm guessin' I can sell CDs
I'm not a businessman, I'm a business, man!
Let me handle my business, damn
Kanyeez you got me, Freeway then Foxy
YG's, Teairra Mari, Peedi watch me
Bleek could be one hit away his whole career
As long as I'm alive he's a millionaire
And even if I die he's in my will somewhere
So he could just kick back and chill somewhere
Oh yeah, he don't even have to write rhymes
The Dynasty like my money, last 3 lifetimes
Shirley Bassey's in the rear saying exactly
What I've been saying practically my whole career
A diamond is forever, I've been minin' this forever
Now the Louis Vuitton Don's timin' couldn't be better
People lined up to see the Titanic sinkin'
Instead we rose up from the ash like a phoenix
If you're waitin' for the end of the Dynasty sign
It would seem like forever is a mighty long time
(I'm Young, bitches)
Good night!


[Kanye West]
We the cause of all the commotion
Your mouth running, but where is you going?
What is you smoking, man? That ain't potent
What is you talking, man? That ain't important
Illuminati, High society
We in this party and nobody invited me
We going crazy and I always use my best sense
But it don't matter cause I stay on my fresh prince
Maxin', relaxin, shootin' some pool and
Playing some b-ball outside of the school and
Girls with they top off outside of the pool and
Whips with the drop off outside of the Louvre
You just look stupid to be ignoring
The Delorean parked in front of Armani emporium
And parties at Richie is getting risky
Victoria's Secret show, they miss me
Voices in my head, I need choices in my bed
AHHHHH, get out my fucking head
It's just me and my bad bitch
So you can say I'm on my Brad Pitt
Back to the la familia I'm aligned with
Before I betray them I slit my wrists
At the top is just us nigga
Cause I don't really trust niggas
And we made it through the hurricane
So celebrate and light the Mary Jane
We gon' make it, that's on everything
Truest girls get half naked, every spring
They saying, "Hey Kanye
We need you to go deeper than Tay Zonday,"
Cause my verses got pain, Chocolate Rain
So many lines, you photograph and it make arms break
On the radio, man I miss myself
I need to just step back and kiss myself
Baby, just step up and kiss the belt
A little lower.. that's what's up
Somebody pour her another cup
Is it too much to ask you keep your diamonds up?
I swear until my time is up
My style is sex in the shower, fresh as fuck
[Hook - Rihanna]
So shine bright tonight you and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye so alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Post-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Verse 2]
Palms rise to the universe
As we moonshine and molly
Feel the warmth we'll never die
We're like diamonds in the sky
You're a shooting star I see
A vision of ecstasy
When you hold me I'm alive
We're like diamonds in the sky
[Pre-Hook]
I knew that we'd become one right away
Oh right away
At first sight I felt energy of sun rays
I saw the life inside your eyes
[Hook]
So shine bright tonight you and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye so alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Post-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Outro]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
So shine bright tonight you and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye so alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond


[ Intro: The Dream]
Yeah, girl, you so sexy though
As she just lay at your feet
[ Verse 1: Kanye West]
I wanna see what's under there, there
Now put it in the air
Yeah, load it on my macbook air
It's a new form of macking, don't be old fashioned
Update your passion
Only reason why I be eye chattin'
Is when it's time for some action
I wanna hit it way, way out like John Paxton
But for now I just gotta watch her practice
Send her a picture so she see it
She says, I-I-I can't believe it
Ohh, she all on me, on me
Ohh, I think she want me, want me
I think she showed her homies
Why? Cause all the homies on me
Ayo, all the digital gonna have to do for now
But I'mma break it down when I get back in town
[Verse 2: Jamie Foxx]
I love it, girl
The way you bring your light into this room
I love it, girl
The way your legs light up when they're in them shoes, oh
I love it, girl
The way your lips looks after you apply the gloss
I love you, girl, girl
You look right in the screen and take it off, off
See I can't wait till I get a little taste of you
And I just upgraded to 10-80i, hi def just for you
[Hook: Jamie Foxx]
My digital girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl
She's my digital girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl
She's my digital girl
[Verse 3: Jamie Foxx]
My homies never seen you
But I always got you right here for me
Tucked in my Louis computer bag
Wherever you are, I could be
I'll type you a message for the next send off
You shoot me a video and then I load
Even though I hate this distance it keeps me persistent
One day I'll have your ass up in this kitchen
[Hook: Jamie Foxx and The Dream]
My digital girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl
She's my digital girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl
My digital girl
Not a day goes by shawty
Without you on my mind, shawty
Hey, don't care what you wear
Baby, I wanna see what's under there
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
When you seen the picture cut off the face
Now cover up the tattoo by the waist
Let the MC search till I reach third base
And when I get home I'mma hit home plate
Wait, would this be considered our first date?
Yay, this picture just looks so trash
Your body make a baller spend cook coked cash
Plus every good girl wanna go bad
And pose in the mag like Stacy Dash
Or Kim Kardashian and be a lady addict
You know what's a crazy thing?
A girl would make you wait longer than AC Green
Passion of the Christ, thirty three year old virgin
That's disrespectful, baby, don't encourage him
I like them brown, yellow, Puerto Rican or Persian
Dashiki, kimono, or turban
They say I dress white but my swag so urban
Tryin' my luck, I hit her with the text say
Baby, you up, question mark
And she reply YES-S-S-I-R
[Hook]


[The-Dream]
I wanna see what's under therrrrrrrre...baby
[Drake]
Who's that peekin in my window?
Uh, you should let some more skin show
And if one of these websites get the info
Wii can work it out, no Nintendo
I just hit Alt, Tab
Switchin in between two convos
I should just call cabs
And bring 'em both here to the condo
Yeah, normally it ain't a question
We would cross paths like an intersection
But she just too far away for affection
So I pray that we never lose a connection
Cause I remember Stacy, she prolly hate me
She used to threaten she had a man to replace me
She talk that shit, I just hit the escape key
And then she get mad and wanna go and erase me
And I remember Amy, she used to AIM me
She stayed up late, and used to blame me
She said I'm too wild, she wanna tame me
I told her even Photoshop couldn't change me
But you-you-you, you got me open girl, why lie?
We ain't even tryna settle, so why try?
End the night with a kiss and a bye bye
No strings attatched, your love is so Wi-Fi
[Jamie Foxx]
I love it, girl
The way you bring your light into this room
Uh, I love it, girl
The way your legs ?light up? when they're in them shoes, ohhh
I love it, girl
The way your lips looks after you apply the gloss
Ah, I love it, girl, girl
You look right in the screen then take it o-off, off
[Hook: Jamie Foxx] (The-Dream)
My digital girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, girl
(She's my digital) girl, girl, girl, girl, girl, GIRL, girl
(She's my digital girl)
[Jamie Foxx]
My homies never see you
But I always got you right here for me
Tucked, in my Louis computer bag
Wherever you are, I could be
I type you a message full of X's and O's
You shoot me a video and then upload
Even though I hate this distance, it keeps me persistent
One day I'll have your ass up in this kitchen
[Hook]
[The-Dream] {Kanye West}
Baby, not a day goes byyyy... (Whoaaaaa...) (Eh, shawty)
Without you on my miiiind... (Whoaaaaa...) (Eh, shawty)
Donna Karan underweaaaaar... (Whoooa-HOA..) (Eh shwaty)
{Babe, I swear you have nothing to worry about)
Baby, I wanna see what's under therrrre... {It's easy, look lemme explain..}
(Oh baby, yeah baby!)
[Kanye West]
When you take the picture, cut off your face
And cover up the tattoo by the waist
Let the +MC Serch+ 'til I reach +3rd Base+
And when I get home I'mma hit home plate
Wait, could this be considered our first date?
"'Ye, the picture just looks so trash"
Your body make a baller spend cooked coke cash
Plus every good girl wanna go bad
In Playboy mags like Stacy Dash
Or Kim Kardashian, be a lady aaaaat, it
You know what's a crazy thing?
Some girls'll make you wait longer than A.C. Green
Passion of the Christ, 33-Year Old Virgin
That's disrespectful baby, don't encourage him
I like 'em brown, yellow, Puerto Rican, or Persian
Dashiki, kimono, or turban
They say I dress white, but my swag so urban
Tryin my luck, I hit her with the text say
"Baby you up," ?uestion mark
And she respond, "
YES-S-S-I-R"
[Hook w/ ad-lib]
[Jamie Foxx]
I ain't lyin, no no
I ain't cheatin, no no
I ain't lyin, uh no
I ain't lyin, no no
I ain't lyin, no no
I ain't cheatin, no no
I ain't lyin, no no {fades}


[Intro]
Let's do it!
Santana, Jim Jones, Killa, Freekey
How long we gon' have this shit on lock, man?
Yes sir, you gave me the right track Kanye
[Verse 1]
Listen, I been coppin them P's and
Maybe that's part of the reason
I feel like a boxer: bobbin and weavin
But I'm getting head
She's bobbin her weave and (yes sir)
I'm grabbin her neck to stop her from breathin
I'mma wild out until I part with my breathin
Until I'm sparked up and leakin
Part of the cement
I need something pure, like from the Garden of Eden
 (why?)
Wouldn't mind making her part of my achivements (what happened)
Cause when music discourage my pride (who was there?)
Zeke the only one with courage to ride
The ride's so dirty inside
Seems like we were playin in mud
Hazin' it up, grams, gauge and a snub
Who ill? a check for two mill
And a cheap case, defaced, blue steel, true skills
I got stories that my soul can sing
Flip water like Poland Spring
And I'mma hold them things
[Verse 2]
Look - talk to 'em
Look - my fella said you been coppin' a lot
Latest caper? Propellers on top of the drop
But fuck it, who ever thought I would rock at the Roc? (Killa!)
Top a top on top of the top
But yo - nothing definite
I chop up the rocks
And I stop up the drop
Blocka Blocka the block
Hello mate, yellow tape, helicopter your spot
What you wanted is not what you got
And I pop up them cops
Cause dogg, it ain't about Cam (It ain't about me)
I got a son homeboy, it's about Cam (For that?)
It's about being 'bout It
If you're not, you're ass backwards
My mathematics cause cash matters (That's important)
Little niggas need to sit up and breathe
If the town too hot, get up and leave
Niggas always got a trick up their sleeve (always)
Nigga like me - I always got a brick up my sleeve
And that's for-e-ver
[Verse 3]
Shit, I was two blocks from coppin dust
I used to hop the bus
Now look dogg, ain't nobody hot as us
Girls, they gotta rush
Shit, they gotta blush
Wanna go in the mall just to shop with us
To how they piss and, bitch, how they ran a mile
Fuck 
Killa Cam
, they in love with 
Cameron Giles
Damn, I gotta smile
Hundred grand, I demand it
God damnit, the boy the boy done done it, child
And that's forever, man
[Outro]
You hear it, uh huh
We here, I love y'all man
It's nothing boy
Dash
, 
Hoffa
, 
Young Guru
What's really good?
Holla at your boy
I might have this shit on lock man
Kanye, Harlem, Chicago, Columbus, Holla
Chicago, you have your own Kanye West on the track
Harlem, you know who the fuck I am - Killa!
We just want you's to know Diplomats is here
We ain't going nowhere
Holla atchya boy-boy, 
let's ride out man


[Produced by Cid Rim and Theophilus London, Arranged by Kanye West]
[Hook]
She told me that she only do girls
But since she met a player like me
Man I feel like I'm on top of the world
Never heard him, 
I convert 'em, put my lovin' in 'em
She told me that she only do girls
But since she met a player like me
Baby I can take you from your girl
[Verse 1]
I was with my muse, Arizona
Sippin' on Arizona iced teas
, homie
We havin' dinner at the MOMA
Oh this young pretty fly thing starin' at me
She kissin' girls cause she wanna
Deep down in her soul, man she fishin' for D
She send emojis to my phone
Now we in the black cab, turnt and gettin' trippy
I like all of her friends, they're some nice girls
She a runway tall model, pretty white girl
I never discriminate, just dated three black girls
That's my private life so you don't know that, girl
Indian, Russian, now I'm back in Milano
Where they feed me Italian cause I don't eat no McDonalds
All these girls be frontin', tryna be in disguise
On that hush, hush, hush, she tellin' you lies
Girl!
[Hook]
[Interlude]
Girl 1: Hello?
Girl 2: Oh my God, I feel so bad
Girl 1: Hello?
Girl 2: We were, we were dancing and we started to kiss
Girl 1: Where are you?
Girl 2: I'm at his house now.. I.. I..
Girl 1: Which house? Did you with him?
Girl 2: Oh my God, we were making love and, please don't tell Kaitlyn, just
Girl 1: I'm with everyone now
Girl 2: Just, just come now cause I need to get out of her, I'm really
Girl 1: I'm gonna come and get you
[Verse 2]
All these girls be frontin', tryna be in disguise
She said she's testin' the waters and how she don't do guys
Until last night, I was provin' her wrong
Had my tongue in her thighs, and nearly makin' her cry
And she told me a sad story how her life is tough
She never go this far, but I was callin' her bluff
She was stuck and thinkin' about the girl that she loves
All the guilty pleasures, man, this shit addin' up
Her phone vibratin', two missed calls from her lover
Textin', "Where you at girl?"
I ain't gon' lie, we was deep between the covers
I was sayin', "Throw it back, girl"
Ring, ring, ring, ring, ring, was my lover
It's a shame last night she was with the lovers
Ring, ring, ring, ring, ring, was my lover
I don't think she's comin' back, girl
[Hook]


I appreciate everyone’s support for my clothing line but I wanted to clarify a few things… The name of the line is Kanye West not DW… 
The DW was a design element placed on the invite in homage to my mom
 :-). I really appreciate 
the fake DW twitter page
 but 
since it’s not official I can’t co-sign any information on it
“Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.” – Leonardo Da Vinci
More clarity… I have no agency representing me currently… William Morris was fired after Cara Lewis quit. I love Cara Lewis :-)
I love being back at my fashion office learning and creating. It’s so challenging and fun and I’m surrounded by amazing people.
 
They say you only live once but every time I come to work I feel like I’m starting a second life
. 
You guys might think I have some type of backing for my line but I don’t.
 
I did the first fashion show out of my own pocket and used the money I made touring to follow my passion.
 
I’ve been working at this for 8 years now.
 From the first offers to do urban clothing lines that I turned down…
to begging Bape to do my line
 and never making any real headway…to having an office in LA that was shut down after the 
“MTV” moment
 
along with my tour with (Lady) Gaga
I moved to Japan for one month after that and designed every night in my room. 
I had this opportunity to intern at Fendi and was also offered a position at Versace which I could not take due to my contract with LV which was for 2 years.
 
I moved to Rome after I left Japan and worked at Fendi for 4 months undercover.
 I was there to give ideas for the men’s collection. 
I snuck to Giuseppe Zanotti’s factory still under contract and learned to design womens shoes for 2 years before my first show in Paris
. After doing the first LV collection I was sure I would get a second shot to create but was never given the opportunity
I designed a sneaker called the (Air) Yeezy with Nike.
 I’m “allowed” to design 1 pair of sneakers every 2 years. I have more ideas…
Early 2011 I moved to Paris and opened a small design studio. The language barrier was quite difficult.
 
I still don’t have a Paris VAT number to this day. I don’t know what a VAT is but every time I asked why we didn’t have fabrics they said it was because of the VAT
. 
In Paris I met many great people in design including the master Azzedine Alaia.
 
Azzedine even came by my studio one day :-)
. 
This was the greatest feeling to stand in his presence in my embarrassingly small Paris studio in a courtyard opposite Collate
I remember being 5 years old picking and my mother taking me with her shopping at the discount fur spots. She said I would always point to the most expensive furs, even as a child. LOL. There is something about making clothing that always brings me back to that point. For the first 16 or 17 years of my life the only thing I knew about women’s clothing was what my Mom would wear. 
I guess some critics would joke that I still don’t know anything.
 LOL. My Mom would wear blue jeans with a fur and an embellished “Cosby Show” sweater :-) to pick me up from school. The teachers said I couldn’t focus. I used to get kicked out of class for bringing dirty magazines and drawing Nike’s in 4th grade
Being a celebrity has afforded me many opportunities but has also boxed me in creatively.
 I was just discussing becoming the creative director for the Jetson movie and someone on the call yelled out, “you should do a Jetsons tour!”
This just happened a few hours ago. I was very insulted of course because for anyone that’s seen the Watch the Throne Tour, Coachella, Glow in the Dark or Runaway know that I have real ideas
I appreciate having the most nominations at the Grammy’s but I feel so conflicted by the fact that award shows sometimes are completely illogical.
 
Good logic tells me “smile Kanye”, the world likes you again.
 
“Red or blue pill?”…aaaaand Swallow.
 
LOL. I wouldn’t have the prestige I have if it wasn’t partially for the Grammy's validation and I honor that
Hmmmmm, what to wear? Here I go again…
 
Yeezy the trend setter or complete f*cking fashion victim…the verdict is still out.
 This is just a train of thought but I figure it’s better to read than trained thoughts
What good is fame and prestige if you can’t use it to help people? I want to help by doing what I know how to do best…create
I have started a new company and I’m so excited about the name…
it’s got the best name ever…of all companies…of all time!!!
The name of the company is DONDA
DONDA is a design company which will galvanize amazing thinkers and put them in a creative space to bounce there dreams and ideas.
 I used to blog all the time an fit was a way to get my opinion out. 
Dr Dre redesigned headphones and made more impact off of one product.
 
I am assembling a team of architects, graphic designers, directors musicians, producers, A&Rs, writers, publicist, social media experts, app guys, managers, car designers, clothing designers, DJs, video game designers, publishers, tech guys, lawyers, bankers, nutritionists, doctors, scientists and teachers
DONDA will be comprised of over 22 divisions with a goal to make products and experiences that people want and can afford.
 I want to put creatives in a room together with like minds that are all way doper than me. We want to help simplify and aesthetically 
improve
 everything we see hear, touch, taste and feel. To dream of, create, advertise and produce products driven equally by emotional want and utilitarian need.. To marry our wants and needs…DONDA
This will all take time but I wanted everyone’s to know what I really care about…I care about people…I care about my fans…I care about people who have never heard of me…There are over 7 billion people on the planet now…It’s something about coming from music that makes me so optimistic. 
Music travels and is not limited to only the wealthy.
 Sometimes my grammar is wrong but my thinking is right :-). 
My mom was an English teacher so I know she sends an SMDH from heaven :-).
 5:18 am in London, my dreams keep me woke
The Watch the Throne tour was a small example of what a DONDA experience can be…
I’m currently working on a new 7 screen experience…
This is one of our projects to be released this year called 2016 Olympics…It’s semi sci-fi, since 2016 is only 4 years away, :-)
We would also like to design the MTV awards. We’re taking everything 10 steps at a time, LOL! I wanted to put this in the world, in hopes that the people who can actually make a difference will stand up and reach out. We need as many amazing powerful smart talented wealthy people to be involved. Come get on board…don’t just sit there…reach out
We can collectively effect the world through design. 
We need to pick up where Steve Jobs left off
When I said wealthy I wanted to point out there are so many billionaires in the world that can come together and help to redesign it and help education. 
School systems were designed to turn people into factory workers.
 Schools should be designed to prep human beings for real life
Spike Jonze and I want to do a Summer school that tries new forms of curriculum. 
Math classes should teach addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, accounting and money management aaaaaand cut!!!
UNLESS YOU’RE A MATH MAJOR!!!
 Kids you should be able to take majors starting in grammar school like how it is at performing art schools. Instead of kicking kids out of schools for using their iPhones…why not promote it?
Allow kids to use search engines to do test…like the real WORLD!!!
 Give kids the amount of test they would have in a year in one day but they have to get everything perfect…
please excuse my grammar…I know it’s extremely ironic
Some kids have better memories than others…
what about emotional IQ’s?
 
What about kids who do bad in school because of how bad their surroundings are?
Excuse me…I just get excited at the possibilities…the more excited I get the more grammatical errors you’ll see…
We need to take what Michael Jackson felt and Mcqueen and Steve Jobs, and we need make things better[Verse 1]
Spit it to ya say little West's a little beast
To make the middle west blow like the middle east
PEACE
Peace, couldn't afford the S-Class
So I had to cop the baby mama Benz
Jeep
With put 50 I get this on the first tape
But that 50 break the bank
Back when my ATM was crazy slim
Had a girl nicknamed Sprewell
Cause when I try to stop she still made me spin
Back when 80's was in
My dog Crazy Ken had 80 of them
It's time to hit the dancefloor ya CRAZY again
Ta get that cash money like Baby and Slim
Pull up in somethin tinted
So tinted she squinted
She said "This car is real old!" I told her her it was vintage
And I need to hit the HEALTH CLUB
And get a girl thats
In to the fitness tryna get into the business
Ima make her my apprentice
Make her open wide like she made me her dentist
And let me get inside
[Hook]
Now I been hustlin' my whole life (Ohh)
Tryna get this money up (Ohh)
And I think I finally got it right
And I been partyin with this one girl
Who claim "I gotta go to work tomorrow, but tonights the night
So pour another glass of that good stuff
A couple more shots and I'll be
Doing Fine"
[Verse 2]
Spit it to ya say little West to little beast
To make the middle west blow like the middle east
PEACE
Please
What I gotta win 5 Grammys before you finally let me play Alicia's
Keys
If I can't bone then I'll get a clone
Get her there got her there grab her hair she bobbin don't stop her there
Told me she love the Roc so much she drove all the way to Far Rockaway
For Roc-a-wear
More popular, cause I abracadabra my Nissan
To a car throwin' a peace sign
PEACE
Damn thats like the same line I used in the first verse
Wa-wa-wa-wa-wa-wait it gets worse
I told her S-U-C-K
Before we F-U-C-K
, 
I give a F-U-C-K if your nephew see K
And if CL like UCK,
 
thats how you know chickens C-L-U-C-K
I'm tryna find a crazy female with a cutie face
A big Pimpa on the DL like UGK
And then I told her
[Hook]


[T.I. - talking]
Ay I'm working here, know what I'm saying
Try to put yourself in my shoes for a second
Its not personal I'm just sayin though
[Verse 1]
Ay look
From when the moon came out 'till the sun came up
I was supplyin' the days when where they flame up
Our mamas passing, by trying to explain us
Pissing in the bushes like they never house trained us
But, try to understand thats how we came up
You get to know us, you'll love us but you can't change us (naw)
Really we rather be rich and famous
But in the mean time were forced to slang dust
'Dro or crack cocaine, Penicillin to Rogaine
Ecstacy, Viagra, whatever'll get the dough mayne
I'm tired of people misrepresenting my domain
Oh you think we out here killing for nothing, hustling
For no gain (picture that)
[Hook] (sample playing in the background)
Hey man I'm just doing my job
Hey lady, don't mind me I'm just doing my job
I don't wanna make your life more harder, I'm just doin my job
You live here, I work here I'm doing my job
[Verse 2]
I don't know if you don't know, don't care or can't see
Every time something up in the hood, it ain't me
And I ain't always up to no good and on the creep
So you ain't always gotta pass through the hood without speaking (how you doin'?)
We ain't out here threatening your lives, raping your children
We just out here staying alive, making a million (you know)
Working hard, trying to survive chasing a mill-ion
You hear us talking loud, 
just think of us as chameleons
Adapting to situations,
 but accusations of stealing
And burglarizing your house, I mean you just hurting my feelings
We got lives, we wanna live nice too
We got moms, dads, wives, kids just like you
But our options are few, it's hell in high school
When your helping with the rent lights and the gas bill too
So before you go judging us loving us won't hurt
When you're under 25, staying alive's hard work
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
And for you to see what I'm saying, open eyes will help
If you could think about somebody besides yourself
Why you pointing fingers at me, analyze yourself
Quit all that chastising and try to provide some help
Instead of calling the law and busting my balls
With all due respect, we don't even be fucking with y'all (maan)
And we can't help it cause it is like this
We don't like it no more than you that we live like this
Always stuck in the grind, summertime to wintertime
Cutting school to sell fifty dimes by dinner time
See everything we know we learned from the streets
Since thirteen I've been hustling and earning my keep
[Hook]



When me and Jay toured, every night I peered into the audience astonished by the different walks of life that came to support us
The adrenaline is running…I don’t know if I can even get to sleep now. 
From Wall Street to the London riots to Chicago murders
…I sit everyday and ask what can I do to make a difference. I know this is not a very rapper thing to say but I haven’t bought a new car or piece of jewelry in about 2 years
I invest every dime back into creativity, hiring amazing creatives, paying for flights, offices…etc. My area of expertise is in music, my passion is in music, design, film and products…my strength is connectivity…
There are so many broken systems from the economy to school systems to jail systems…we need experts for this. We need scientist and top world designers to directly affect governments
I just wanted to share what’s been on my mind…
“If you have an apple and I have an apple and we exchange these apples then you and I will still each have one apple…but if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange these ideas, then each of us will have two ideas.” – George Bernard Shaw


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
Man I promise, when I get old enough
I'mma buy you a limo, 
and we gon' go to Red Lobster
And you can get all the.. all the lobster tail that you want
Cause I'ma be rich! Yeah I'ma be rich, uhh...
[Hook]
When you make that money boy they, say don't you forget 'em
 (x4)
Don't forget 'em, don't don't forget 'em (x3)
Don't forget 'em, Cons don't forget 'em
[Verse 1]
I finally got my first real money
So should I turn Hollywood? I probably could
... and turn my back on the hood
And never go back, but I ain't with that
See this is where I learned to rap, and this is where I learned to scrap
And this is how I learned to stack
Penny by penny and bit by bit
Watchin the older heads move brick by brick
And one hand would wash the other, and one aunt would watch your brother
And your father wound up watchin your mother
And the prettiest smile you ever discovered
Becomes when you call her face
And your second cousin lost his case
They gave him 25-to-life, what a waste
And they tryin to pay your lawyer, but they just ignore ya
So he ended up goin upstate, uhh
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I finally got my first real money so of course they all
Up in my grill cause they need help with the bills
And I'm like "Homey just chill
I got you my nig, just let me get big"
And I promise I'll be back, cause I need the feedback
And the honesty every time that you react
Cause nothin can buy that, nothin provides that
'Cept when you drive back
... and cruise through the blocks of the hood you're from
To holla at your folks, that's the rule of thumb
Cause y'all came up together, y'all was crew from young
But some of them went on to abuse them drugs
Confusin love, for they addiction
Now they out there on a mission
And lost sight of the do's and don'ts
But I'll be wrong if I forgot so I won't
[Hook]
[Outro]
You are me, and I am you
And I won't ever forget, word
Uhh
[Hook]


[Intro: Kanye]
I hope you forget me not. Forget me not. I won't forget you ever, ever
[Consequence]
Man I promise. After this remix. Forget Red Lobster
Cause I got reservations at Mr. Chow's tonight
And you can get any, and I mean anything that you want
Cause I'm about to bang 'em in the head with this paper. Word
[Hook]
So if you made that money boy
They say don't you forget 'em [x4]
Don't forget 'em, don't don't forget 'em [x3]
Don't forget 'em, Quence let's go get 'em
[Verse One: Consequence]
It wasn't until I got money, that I became a conscious rapper
Cause now I'm conscious of the fact of who they gon' go after
When they tryna find a back up for a team in the park
So they run up on my car before I can even park
But I guess there's no harm in hearin' out his proposal
But how you wanna stack and we aren't even social?
See this the kind of trash that if I choose to say no to
They gon' trash talk about me like a garbage disposal
And say that I changed like a dress rehearsal
And try to line me up with the intent to hurt you
But that ain't nuttin' more than a test of virtue
Cuz my promise to the hood is that I'll never desert you
For years I was swingin' at air. But then a wing and a prayer
Became the seats on the wing of a Lear
Yeah they kickin' theyself cuz they should have stuck wit 'em
It's Cons to the Quence and you won't won't forget 'em uh
[Hook]
So if you made that money boy
They say don't you forget 'em [x4]
Don't forget 'em, don't don't forget 'em [x3]
Don't forget 'em, 'Ye let's go get 'em
[Verse Two: Kanye West]
When I finally get my first real money
F*** keepin' it real, I'm gonna act real funny
Why? Cause these dudes try to Sanford & Son me
I, sit there and act like a big dummy
When, A&R's saw what they could get from me
I just do what B.I.G. said, go ahead Get Money
Had to humble myself just to play these beats
One of my side Gemini's just reminded me
About, the two ways how you being your contact
They laugh for two days when they heard that Kan rap
Cocky ass rappers ain't need no contracts
Now they fell off and they need a contract
Ha, it's funny how I got what I got
And I ain't never seen it get quite beyond that
Got a chip that won't quit, a grudge that won't budge
These niggas give you pounds and go in for a hug
Naw homie hold up
Naw dude slow up. Y'all ain't never show love
You ain't never know us. No nigga, no sir
Uh, I gotta bounce here comes my chauffeur
[Hook]
So if you made that money boy
They say don't you forget 'em [x4]
Don't forget 'em, don't don't forget 'em [x4]
[Outro]
Since we made that money boy
They say don't you forget 'em [x4]
Don't forget 'em, don't don't forget 'em [x4]


[Hook: Mos Def]
Don't look down, it's an impossible view
Fly like an eagle, whatever you do
Don't look down, it's an impossible view
Spread your wings, aerial
[Verse 1: Lupe Fiasco]
Head to the sky, wings raised and
She's about to fly and take her place in
Out there in the stars when she leaves the ground
She'll see a broken heart, if she turns around
But ain't no going back, this is how it must be
He told her she'll be burned alive, she just told him "trust me"
If funerals are beautiful, this ugly
Knowing this, he told her you wouldn't leave me if you loved me
And he knows that, because he knows her
Hard to hide his feelings, as it engulfs her
Now she's a bright blaze, light rays
A shooting out, a phoenix on fire burning up the nightscape
So lets hear it for our heroine
Applaud as her spirit just flies into the never-end
One closed chapter, it opens up another part
So this is more like the end, question mark
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Don't let me hold you back, I only hold you back
We're on a dead-end street, this block has got a cul-de-sac
So fly baby, my baby so high
Sometimes it's so hard to say bye
We made it from the alley straight up to the valley
We pulled up to the valet
, 
we'll teach our daughter ballet
We'll raise us a Beyonce
, 
maybe she'll be a Halle
You would've been the best mom, I would have been the best 'Ye
You see it all in my veins, like varicose
I know that's very gross
 
but we getting very close
To our end, though I killed most with a pen
Soon as this flow end, I'mma let Mos begin
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Big Sean]
How could you do it, how could you do it
Okay now baby here we go, 
we go, no baby, me go
You got my heart, baby this what it beat for
I give it all, walk as far as my feet go
What you mean "me go", why can't it be "we go"?
What happens when people turn to tears (huh?)
Dreams turn to memories and weeks turn to years,
 
huh?
Standing in the same spot for a couple of weeks
Give me my feelings back, wish love came with a couple receipts
Man, our vacation was coming next week
Girl, I swear you was a trip, let's make it a couples' retreat
How could my girl do this to me
Woke up to a note saying "the world did this to me"
Now I'm testing, one-two, reporting live from the rubble
Drinking all I can so I can turn to fire when I hug you
One, two, three, four, five models on the double
Give me head all at once, look like they lying in a huddle
But its not even half the feeling as hearing your "Seans, you know I love you”
Shedding tears everyday, and I'm tired of lying in these puddles
I ask why sometimes, like a fucking vowel
Been hitting trees everyday, like a fucking owl
Trying to get high enough to cut the clouds
Of the phoenix sun to Nash it out
, 
I mean ash it out
So I could see you smile
I know you can see me now
[Hook]


[Intro]
Drink slow to feed the nose, you know he likes to get blown
Has he got enough money to spend?
Leave? No. He's to and fro, he doesn't like it when the girls go
Has he got enough money to spend?
[Hook: Travis Scott x4]
I ain't playing with these niggas
I ain't playing with, I ain't playing with these niggas
[Verse 1: Travis Scott]
Know I need my dollars
Know a nigga need my commas
She was down when I dropped out of college
Down, she was down when I rode Impalas
Played with her pussy in the jeep
Yeah, she was down with the foreplay drivin'
Jumped in the car when she hit my digits
Don't want nothin', just to pull up at the projects
Easy to me my nigga
Build it with a seam, youngin always seen with a killer
Hand stitched by my dealer
Dealing with a seam you ain't seen, what you mean Margiela?
She even got the 'scripts for the cough
In the H gotta hit Johnny for the frost, swirved off
It ain't been a minute seen they seen a weird nigga
From the corner put it on for the south
On my momma, know a nigga be coasting
Go nigga grab my bottles, go nigga grab my Chronic
Keep ya head up in the air my nigga
Niggas know gon be billionaires my nigga
Fuck how much time that shit might take
Niggas ain't playin' with em!
[Hook x4]
[Verse 2: Big Sean]
B.I.G. Sean Don, my Aura Gold
Bitch don't you play me, don't you try me
I need the exact amount
Look at my face ho, eye to eye me
I'm a boss Make sure you and your homies dress up, tie attire
When you see me ho, or I'll take that white tee and tie-dye dye it
I mean, god damn nigga!
You forgot where I came from? I'm from where you ain't from
Where you can't come, where it ain't none
Where these bitches is bitches and they ain't nuns
Where they hate from
But as soon as you blow they act like they been down since day one
Where there's fucking tank guns
Nigga's never join the Army, like it ain't one
If I ain't got it then I'm huntin',
 
I'm either countin' or I'm cummin'
Swear I just done bought that mansion, treat that shit like it's a dungeon
Up at 5AM still workin', but I treat it like it's 1
I'm never actin' like I got it
Bitch I'm actin' like I want it on these niggas!
[Hook]
[Bridge]
[Hook]


[Pharrell]
Explain yourself, how you sound like me?
The motherfucking skateboard P
Knowing that you're Milo
Playing games like Cee-Lo
In a tight situation like Speedo’s
You can have it your way like Carlito
My niggas would be happy to give y'all torpedoes
And have your car twisted like a blunt
For you faggot-ass niggas that like to front
I’m on some BBC bape shit
I'm on some cake shit
In the kitchen with the heat, making beats in my apron
You hating and you want to erase it
Close your eyes when you know you can’t take it
My flow interrupts your homeostasis
I Rolls-Royce it on a regular basis
You talk street shit it sound like sweet shit
Straight licorice
 you niggas sound ticklish
80K large for the Hermes dream
Purple croc in all your magazines
Hunger strike yourself, look like Celine
Dion
, 
me and my niggas like freon
Your bitch's on 
my pecan
She got an ass you can eat on
Try to play tough like the leather on a Vuitton
I hit it 'til I could seat on
Try to get her freak on
Ask me to R. Kelly ya and get peed on
I said "that ain't me, ma'am"
That 8 behind me still got the burner
Yes, 
the enzo
 is still 
black like Sojourner
Truth,
 
I might have just loosened a tooth
Spitting what I did in the booth
I’m out, poof
[Lupe Fiasco]
Carrera
, 
raised in the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle era
Water-bearer tell the truth, I dare ya
Ya lie, so eat this whole bottle of these jalapeño peppers
For terror made in America
, too live
Fuck the property or give me my props properly
High off life this high technology, DeVry
I rep Muhammad Ali more like rapology
My policy’s not to be dishonestly deprived
So gimme that, gimme that, 
keep God
Where my city at, I’m like steak and fries but never die
They wanna 
Ghostface, wanna be me
But they will post-haste follow me into the after-life
That means you going right after I’ve
But I’m the hero sort of like Jack Sparrow
So some way, some how, I have survived
Ha ha, surprised
Who is he that we see coming over the tides?
In a speed boat, boatload of pride
Fall of Rome, dress-shirted and mastermind tie
He what happens when rapping and avant garde fashion collides
OMG it's the C from the CRS
 
LOLing at you haters
Tell your BFFs
, 
like
[Kanye West]
Yes, Mr. West's turn that new child rebel
Loud as a badass child level
Who need a chorus? We do it tyrannosaurus
Tyrone, it’s been a year with no phone
Could you explain how high is your zone?
We’ll take the plane, rub his nose in cocaine
There’s hoes in magazines you layin' saying you're lame
And for the hate in advance, pull down your pants
Make ‘em kiss both cheeks like we living in France
Diamonds blue, his business manager’s Jewish
And if I get sued my lawyers Jews
Some girls do grab the cojones
Say "you got enough diamonds to at least Sierra loan us"
Brand new Ferraris, I gotta make the donuts
CRS is like a hip-hop Chris’ bonus
Niggas is hating on the internet I couldn’t tell
I was too busy rapping, G.O.O.D. as hell
I was too busy flying, parasail
To Colette to get the new shit that Paris sell
Tarantino,
 
Da Vinci
, 
getting Benjies
, 
get half off of Fendi
Half of that’s to Cindy's
Hopped out the spaceship, put my Mork in Mindy
Popped too many corks to let you dorks offend me
Props in New York, but
 
Chi-Town’s the city
Get my groupie hoochies Gucci,
 
Monica Bellucci’s
Are those the real millionnaires or the bendies?
I’m so ultra I’m even over Oprah
But let me check your account, haha, no sir


Don't talk
I appreciate it
I appreciate 'at
But don't talk
You
I know
I don't want
That's fine
But don't talk
To me
I don't want to hear paparazzi talk to me
Or anybody I know
It doesn't [matter]
No no
But don't talk
To me
At all
And don't talk to anyone I know
At all
And tell everybody never talk
To anyone
That anyone knows
.
Don't talk to themselves
Don't talk ever again
Yo, I said don't
I said don't talk!


[Intro]
"This is the operator with a collect call from: 'Emory Jones'
To accept the charges, press one now"
[Interlude: Jay-Z]
Emory, whattup?
Told you I ain't too good with writin' letters and all
Shit, I don't even write rhymes
But what I will do
I'mma send you this open scribe through the airwaves
Vibe with me...
Yeah, nigga, I bet we was kids and had dreams of bein' here
I said "we" cause I'm here, you here!
Yeah, ride with me, your spot is reserved family
Cigarette boats, yachts, ain't nowhere we can't go
We in South Beach and the Hamptons, too, baby!
[Hook: John Legend]
I know, I know
Some places we can go, some places we can go
I know, I know
Some places we can go, some places we can go
Do you wanna ride with me
Do you wanna ride with me
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
You know why they call The Projects a project, because it's a project!
An experiment, we're in it, only as objects
And the object for us to explore our prospects
And sidestep cops on the way to the top - yes!
As kids we would daydream, sittin on our steps
Pointin at cars like yeah that's our six
Hustlers, prophets, made our eyes stretch
So on some Dr. Spock shit, we STARted our TREK
Some of us made it, most of us digressed
In the name of those who ain't make it my progress
Is your success, please live through me
See I'm the eyes for Emory, keep him alive
(This is a collect call) So everytime I press five
All he wanna hear is his boy talk fly
Up in the fed, and still holdin his head
So when he hits the streets he gon' eat through this bread
Now let's ride
Hook
[Jay-Z - over Hook]
I'm crushin all award shows
MTV, BET, the Grammys, crushed linen, Purple Label
All that fly shit we talked about
Givin' em Sinatra pinky rings with the blue diamonds and e'rything
Hehehe, that's what we talked about right?
Uh-huh...
 tried to told you, ride with me
[Jay-Z]
International Hov', I told you so
40/40's out in Tokyo
Singapore, 
all this from singin songs
Comin up though we thought slingin raw
Was the end all be all of bein rich didn't we
Little did I know my mo' potent delivery
Would deliver me, kingpin of the inkpen
Monster of the double entendre, Coke is still my sponsor
Heh, the Cola, yeah
Hova still gettin it in with soda
Diet, no sir, I ain't lose no weight
Started from the crates now I'm sittin on a whole case
Since they got you sittin on that old case
Our dreams is on hold like Tivo
So I can't wait 'til you get your date
I got some temp plates outside of the gate
We gon' ride
Hook
[Jay-Z - over Hook]
Uh-huh, uh-huh
Geah
Don't even worry about it though, you ain't missed nuttin
It only gets better, 
they got the Maybach Coupe now
Look like the Batmobile, the Phantom the top just comes off that joint
It only gets better
They caught your body they can't trap your mind
Keep your spirit alive read your books
Matter of fact, let me take you somewhere
Vibe with me, c'mon
[Jay-Z]
Now me and my 
lil' mama
, 
Kita and Ty-Ty
Juan and Dez
 out in 
San Tropez
Jay Brown and Kawanna
, sneakin marijuana
You know that Mary J. give you No More Drama
Lost a couple friends this whole shit got weird
But when you get home you know your spot's reserved, ya heard?
I put my niggas on, my niggas put they niggas on
Now we all somewhere foreign, chillin sippin somethin
I ain't forget you cousin, hehe
Yeah nigga y'all can wear sneakers on the beach if you want to
Y'all niggas come and c'mon, playin money marathon
My young'n is LeBron
, 
you know what that makes me baby
Big Homey! Hehe, Emory what's up?
Hook
 - starts over last few lines of above
[Jay - over Hook]
Wan' ride with us? You're more than welcome
We ain't on no bullshit, uhh
Put your feet up
Big Ty, I see you, boy
Guru, I don't usually do this but
Roll me up somethin man
Let me get mellow on this shit right here
Uh-huh, yeah
Uh-huh, white paper though nigga
Can't even fuck with those blunts
White paper baby, old school nigga gimme a joint
Smooth it out
, 
Young H.O
Emory Jones
Word to my momma we livin!


[Hook]
I wanna get down, down, down, down
Down, Down, Down
Get Down
We can get down
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Uh...Mr. West is in the building
Children, Ladies
Call the shrink up, they about to go crazy
Hold your drinks up, like you was celebrating
Hold your guns, if they is hella hating
I'm so clean, and them they got rabies
I can see them through the lens of my Raybe-
Ans, Wayfarers...MmmHmm
'Ye do you play fair? MmmNnnn
Grab your remote, for the reason they made Tivo
Snap your Nikon's with the icons with Nike's on
I heard you like to do it with the lights on
But I really make babies when the mics on
Check out all my kids, that bought all my cribs
Got me out of that apartment
You have got to pardon him
I am so retarded with a spit like a retarded kid that spits
Ooops, I ain't mean to say that shit
I told my homie Chris, these chicks is dangerous
You need a girl that's A List
Not one that's just barely made it on a list
Cause from Wall To Wall
We got it poppin' right now
Its a hundred girls, try to get down down down
[Verse 2: Chris Brown]
Baby girl, gotta tell you
Seen you somewhere before
You look familiar
You had a red shirt, Dickie slacks, and a Gucci bag to match it
Tell me you remember that baby girl
But lady never mind that
Can I take you out later?
And here's my contact
Can you do me this favor?
Can you spend this paper?
Only you cause its just sitting and lets just get it and go
[Bridge]
Let me, let me
Guarantee, guarantee)
I'll make your day
Okay!
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chris Brown]
The way I see it girl, You a perfect ten
That's why I'm all on you baby
You got me wondering
What to do, what to say
Don't want to come off lame
Girl do you gotta man?
Better yet girl, what's your name?
[Bridge]
Now if you hit it
Shawty, shawty
Let me, let me
Take you better way
Baby can we dream, just for today?
[Hook x2]


[Produced by Kanye West and Brian Miller]
[Intro]
Killa! Baby!
Kanye this that 1970s Heron flow huh?
Yeah let's speed it up
[Verse 1: Cam'ron]
Ayo street mergers I legislated
The nerve I never hated
On murders pre-meditated
Absurd! I hesitated
Observe: cock and spray
Hit you from a block away
Drinking sake on a Suzuki we in Osaka Bay
Playing soccer, stupid, stay in a sucker's place
Pluck ya ace,
 
take ya girl, fuck her face
She dealing with Killa so you love her taste
She swallowing Killa cause she love the taste
I got brought up with crooking
Kitchen orders that I'm cooking
But got caught up with the jooks you woulda thought I was from Brooklyn
It gets boring just looking
Did like Bill Cosby, pouring in the pudding
Now the dashboard is wooden from a hard-tangled grammar
Interior, inferior, star-spangled banner
Car game bananas
My man Santana
Guns everywhere, like the car came with hammers
[Hook: Kanye West]
They trying to say he (down, down)
I hear niggas saying he (down, no no)
But our flow is the truest
The games in the nooses
Our girls is the models
They coochies the juiciest
Yeah, they say he (down, down)
Yeah, they say he (down, no no)
Cause I’m back on my grind
Money back on my mind
Ye' and Killa Cam', the 
[Verse 2: Cam'ron]
I treat bitches straight up, like Simon Says
Open vagina: put ya legs behind ya head
Cop me 
Air Ones, hon, lime and red
You got pets? Me too: mine are dead
Fox, minks, gators that's necessary
Accessories, my closet's a "Pet Sematary"
I get approached by animal activists
I live in a zoo
I run scandals with savages
All my niggas get together to gather loot
Bodyguard for what? Dog, I'd rather shoot
I go to war, old Timbs, battered boots
Hand grenade, goggles and a parachute
Ya'll don't even know the name of my flip
It was "Touch Me, Tease Me" when Case was the shit
You don't know bout the cases I get:
Court case, briefcase, suitcase, cases of Cris
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Cam'ron]
Ayo you dealing with some sure shit
My bitches pure thick
Play razor tag, slice ya face, you're it!
It's I who come by drive-thru
Gator-toed Mauri, three quarters, sky blue
Look at mami: 
eyes blue, 5'2''
I approached her "Hi boo, how you?
Pony skin Louis? Oh, you fly too
You a stewardess? Good ma, I fly too"
Now a nigga got baking to bake
Harlem Shake? Nah, I'm in Harlem shaking awake
Shaking to bake, shaking the Jakes
Kill you, shoot the funeral up and Harlem Shake at your wake
Just ya picture though, you still taped in a lake
I'm laughing;
 
you couldn't wait to escape
For anyone who owed the dough, I had to load the fo
I hoped a nigga heard when I said "I told you so"
[Outro]
Mine
Killa you already know Harlem
Whole Midwest, Detroit, Nap town, St. Louis
Chicago of course
Westside, holla at me
Southside wild hundreds
You know what it is Ohio
Columbus, holla at ya boy
You know what else I do:
Dayton, Youngstown, Cleveland, Cincinnati


[Verse 1: Grav]
My style stays on point like spraypaint on eight trains
Try to picture that shit and it'll blow you out the frame
Now c'mon, my rap skills are beyond
Verbals make niggas fold like futons
When they try to switch styles and get convertible
I loosen up screws so that their joints ain't workable
My tongue is a drill on a mission to kill
Sabotage all those who [?]
And fake like they're kings, they're just peasants
Tempted like Christ meetin' the devil in the desert
Repentin' for their mortal sins
Tryna fuck around with Grav when they couldn't win
Yo check my lyrical microphones
Just like [?] speaker cones
See when a nigga spends time in the lab
It works fast so we givin' others jet lag
That's how me and my team keep catchin' [?]
And expand like bands on a soloflex
So what all these bitch niggas want?
Ain't no need for Grav to ever front, yo forever like this
[Hook: Grav]
What these niggas want from skills you'll never [?]
Represent Down to Earth forever, who? G-G-G-Gravity
Yo what they want? Front skills never mean
Represent Down to Earth forever, who? G-G-G-Gravity
Oooh God I warned yah, I hit that ass catacorner
And still be gettin' straight to the point
Smoke mics like joints, wack rappers on the ave
With nothing better to do for the evening, now [?]
[?] behind in a cloud, ka-pow
The dirt and dust, from ill lyrics that I bust
Rhymes are more underground than archaeological finds
So thus I influence minds, like narcotics
I [?] if you don't [?]
[?] funk mechanisms than robotics
I be tellin' weak crews, come on [?]
[?] in a planetary like [?]
I [?] cause my flows is prime
And my mind skills is optimus, it ain't no stoppin' us
Yo even if you built the strongest barricade
GRAV breaks through, niggas still gettin' slayed
Yo even if you had the longest ruler
You still couldn't measure,
 
nigga's too deep like sunken treasure


[Verse 1]
I woke up out that coma 2001
'bout the same time Dre dropped 
Three years later the album is done
Aftermath presents: 
Rap critics politickin, wanna know the outcome
, 
 and 
 in one
I feel like 'Pac after the Snoop Dogg trial was done
Dre behind that G series and All Eyez on Me
I watched the death of a dynasty, so I told Vibe Magazine
Workin' with Dr. Dre was a (dream)
I had visions of makin a classic, then my world turned black
Like I was starin' out of Stevie Wonder's glasses
It's kinda hard to imagine, like Kanye West
Coming back from his fatal accident to beatmaking and rapping
But, we the future, Whitney Houston told me that
And it's gon' take more than a bullet in the heart to hold me back
[Hook]
Blushin' in this 40 ounce, lettin' the ink from my pen bleed
Cause Martin Luther King had a (dream)
Aaliyah had a (dream), Left Eye had a (dream)
So I reached out to Kanye and (I brought you all my dreams)
(Cause I love you, I love you, I love you)
[Verse 2]
I had dreams of fuckin' a R&B bitch like Mya
When I saw that ass on the front of that King
Read the article in the magazine, she loved gangsters, loved nasty things
So I'm in the glass house having nasty dreams
Good girls never give it up
But anything is possible, if 50 fucked Vivica
Hurdled life's obstacles, found my way through the maze
Then joy turned to pain like Frankie Beverly and Maze
Used to dream of being Unsigned Hype
'til I was crushed by Dave Mays, almost let my pen fall asleep on the page
Daydreamin' yesterday, dozin' off backstage
I thought I saw Eazy talking to Jam Master Jay
So I walked over, heard Jam Master say
"It's a hard knock life, then you pass away"
They say sleep is the cousin of death, so my eyes wide open
Cause a dream is kin to your last breath
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
The dream of Huey Newton that's what I'm livin' through
The dream of Eric Wright, that's what I'm givin you
Who walked through the White House without a business suit
Compton hat, jheri curl drippin on Ronald Reagan's shoes
Gave Mike Lem my demo, came here to pay my dues
Started off with Whoo Kid, then I start blazin' Clue
It was all a dream like Big said it'd be
Don't sleep on me homey, I bring nightmares to reality
Rap phenomenon, defyin' the rules of gravity
Studied all the classics, start revisin' my strategy
Cause Marshall Mathers made it, Curtis Jackson made it
Head in the clouds, wonderin' where the hell Marvin Gaye went
How do I say this? I'm livin' for my son
But I can't figure out, why I'm at my temple with this gun
Wake up to a Jesus piece like a catholic nun
The war to be a rap legend, has just begun
[Hook]
[Outro]
This song is dedicated to Yetunde Price
The sister of Venus and Serena Williams
Who was slain during a gang shootout in Compton
Sunday, September 14th, 2003 - rest in peace
(I brought you all my dreams)
(Cause I love you, I love you, I love you)
(I-ighhhhhh love you)


[Produced by Darhyl Camper, Dave Tozer, John Legend & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
Baby it seems the time is never right
You're goin' left and I'm goin' right
Its crazy
But I'm still waiting
[Prehook]
If I play my cards right
My lucks gonna strike
Until then there's a night
All I wanna do
[Hook]
Is dream, dream, dream, dream
Dream, dream, dream, dream
Like lovers do
And it might come true
[Bridge]
If I dream, dream, dream, dream
Dream, dream, dream, dream
It just might be the only time that I'm with you
When I dream, dream, dream
Dream, dream
Oh, I dream
Yes, I dream
Dream, dream
Dream, dream
They say that dreams they sometimes do come true
[Verse 2]
Your star shines so bright
You're the queen of my night
In the daytime not quite
But I'm so glad that I
[Hook]


This is dedicated to, this is dedicated to
The streets, this is dedicated to
[Hook]
And the dog is out, arf arf arf arf
And the dog is out, arf arf arf arf
And the dog is out, arf arf arf arf
It's just D
And the dog is out
[DMX]
Started gettin a little too big for the cage that I been trapped in
Cats new it was a problem, went from robbin to rappin
Guns got the clappin,
 
another trip to the morgue
We all know why it's happenin, another bit by the dog
When there's nothin left to eat, I ate away at my soul
Felt destructive cause I don't give a fuck if I go
I know y'all been told I don't give a fuck about livin
Killin other dogs got you cats chasin bitches
Got me itchin to bring back the beast from within
What I catch I'mma eat, in the streets I'mma win
I've been top dog and I'mma stay top dog
So what the fuck you got to say dog?
You cats play games that dog ain't with
Suck my dick, behind my back dog ain't shit
Well this is it, from now on if you ain't out the camp
We out to clamp, put 'em up against the champ
You bitch
[Hook x2]
And the dog is out, arf arf arf arf
And the dog is out, arf arf arf arf
And the dog is out, arf arf arf arf
It's just D
And the dog is out, c'mon c'mon
[DMX]
I don't think you cats see too clearly
If it ain't that you must be deaf, cause y'all niggas don't hear me
But I know I got you scared to death
How many other niggas you know when you see 'em make you hold your breath?
All a nigga did was take a pause
Did a couple of movies and you thought this whole rap shit was yours?
Stop being greedy, when was the last time you gave to the needy
Believe me, I run through niggas like hallways with the cops behind
Give it to a nigga all day cause I pops the nine
Man listen, if you don't wanna see your man missin, man listen
I get dough like a nigga in a up north flick
And still roll like a nigga on some up north shit
The way dog flip out, cats'll never understand
Niggas be like "X I thought I was your man!"
Not!
[Hook]
This is dedicated to, this is dedicated to
The streets, this is dedicated to
[DMX]
My dogs is dogs that love to brawl
Bring as many as you got cause we gon fuck 'em all
Dicksucked in the hall
The same shorty thats puttin any work on her knees
I'm duckin her call
A dog is a dog is a dog for life, dog been a dog, dog in your wife
I got kids this age
But let 'em keep talkin slick and I'm gon put somethin hot up in his ribcage
[Hook]
When the dog is out, bitch ass niggas get bit or fucked
One or the two, 
and I'm not Ja Rule
Feel me? Aight


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook: Kanye West]
Drive slow, homie
Drive slow, homie
You never know, homie, might meet some hoes, homie
You need to pump your brakes and drive slow, homie
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
My homie Marley used to stay at 
79th and May
One of my best friends from back in the day
Down the street from Calumet,
 
a school for the Stones
He nicknamed me K-Rock so they would leave me alone
Bulls jacket with his hat broke way off
And walked around the mall with his radio face off
Plus he had the spinner from his Daytons in his hand
Keys in his hand,
 
reason again to let you know he's the man
Back when we rocked Ellesses,
 
he had dreams of Caprices
Drove by the teachers, even more by polices
How'd he get the cash? The day his father passed away
Left him with a lil' somethin, 16 he was stuntin'
Al B. Sure nigga with the hair all wavy
Hit Lake Shore, girls go all crazy
Hit the freeway, go at least 'bout eighty
Boned so much that summer, even had him a baby
See back-back then-then, if you had 
 car
You was the 
Chi-Town
 version of 
Baby
And I was just a virgin, a baby
One of the reasons I looked up to him crazy
I used to love to play my demo tape when the system yanked
Felt like I was almost signed when the shit got cranked
We'd take a Saturday and just circle the mall
They had they 
Lincolns
 and 
Auroras,
 
we was hurtin 'em all
With the girls a lot of flirtin' involved, but dog
Fuck all that flirtin', I'm tryin' to get in some drawers
So put me on with these hoes, homie
He told me don't rush to get grown, drive slow, homie
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Paul Wall]
What it do? I'm posted up in the parking lot, my trunk waving
The candy gloss is immaculate, it's simply amazing
Them elbows pokin' wide on that candy 'Lac
Trunk open, screens on, neons lit with fifth relaxed
I'm on a mission for dime-pieces and sexy ladies
Allow me to introduce you to my CL Mercedes
It's a star-studded event when I valet park
Open up my mouth and sunlight illuminates the dark
You see them fours crawling? You see them screens falling?
The disco ball in my mouth insinuates I'm ballin'
I'm leaning on the switch, sitting crooked in my slab
But I could still catch boppers if I drove a cab
A young Houston hardhitter
 
all about the scrilla
Ridin' something candy coated, crawling like a caterpillar
I'm tipping on them fours
, I
'
m jamming on that 
Screw
I'm looking for them hoes baby what it do, drive slow, homie
[Interlude: GLC]
Turn your hazard lights on when you see them hoes
If you're riding around the city with nowhere to go
Live today, cause tomorrow, man, you never know
[Hook]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
My car's like the movie, my car's like the crib
I got more TVs in here than where I live
[Verse 3: GLC]
And that don't make no sense, but baby, I'm the shit
And everything I flip, you know it's something serious
I got the custom grill, I got the Brabus rims
I got the baller genetics, baby, this evidence
You see a player flicking, and how you ain't convinced
That you should go on and kiss it, just a lil bit (just a lil bit)
I got my custom kicks,
 
I got my Jesus chain
My canaries is gleamin' through my angel wings
They see me, hoes actin like they seen a king
With that mean lean,
 
smoking on that finest Cali green
My woodgrain oak,
 
I'm ridin on Vogues
My cylinder quiet, like tip-toes
I sold O's,
 and this I know
When you see them hoes, lil' homie, drive slow
[Hook]


[Kanye West]
My car's like the movie, my car's like the crib
I got more TV's in here than where I live
[Verse 3 - GLC]
And that don't make no sense, but baby I'm the shit
And everything I flip, you know it's something serious
I got the custom grill
, 
I got the Brabus rims
I got the baller genetics
, baby this evidence
You see a player flicking and how you ain't convinced
That you should go on and kiss it, just a lil bit
I wearing my custom kicks, I got my Jesus chain
My 
canary
's is gleaming through my angel wings
They see me, hoes acting like they seen a king
With that mean lean, smoking on that finest Cali green
My woodgrain oak, 
I'm riding on Vogues
My cylinder quiet like tip-toes
I sold O's
 and this I know
When you see them hoes, lil homie, drive slow
(Tony Williams harmony ad-libs)
[T.I.]
Looking at life through my rearview, all the problems I had
Could be seen a lot clearer after time had passed
Known for living so fast, they wonder how he don't crash
With 220 on the dash, he constantly mashing
"Why don't he slow down?" they be constantly asking
But me in the fast lane is like metal and magnets
Now I ain't trying to say that it's the way of the masses
But it's so hard to change, I love this shit with a passion
Since me and Sigel cutting classes, showing our ass
Shooting out in broad day in the middle of traffic
I remember selling crack faster than I could bag it
Just sharing my past with you shawty, I ain't bragging
Me and Cap got life, some other folk got blasted
Had a partner O.D. and after this all happened
It's like the only thing that kept a pimp from crying is laughing
And the Lord smiled on me at the end of the madness
I never thought that I'd make it this far rapping
For introducing the youth to what we now call "trappin'"
Considered now a classic, who'd have imagined?
Me in Milano getting models
 
in next year's fashions
So nowadays, they can call me old-fashioned
But it's way too much cash to see blue lights flashing
So I guess the moral of this here class is:
Life about who make it now, not about who make it the fastest


[Hook: Lily Allen]
It's this thing now, that's drivin' me wild
I gotta see what's up before it gets me down
It's this thing now, that's drivin' me wild
I gotta see what's up before it gets me down
It's this thing now, that's drivin' me wild
I gotta see what's up before it gets me down
Love is not a mystery, it's everything
[Common]
She was the type to watch Oprah and the Today Show
Be on the treadmill, uh, like OK Go
Had a body, A body that you can't pay fo'
That mean she had some Ds on her but they wasn't fake though
Had a drive for a drive for Rodeo
She spent pesos on those labels
Spin class at the gym, strip tease on a pole
She was so obsessed with her body and clothes
To every party she goes, tryin hard to be chose
They say it's hard for a pimp but extra hard for these (hoes)
Readin 
 and 
 mag, tryna get the scoop
Chasin a actor for a Bentley Coupe
She been through the ball player from the Clippers
, 
then came the pumps off
All thinkin she number one where she was just a jumpoff
Doin all she can for a man and a baby
Drivin herself crazy like the astronaut lady
[Hook]
[Common]
He had paper since we was in we was in high school
Pop was a doc, mom taught at my school
Lock with the rocks, in his ears he kept jewels
One of the Diddy types, da D-D-Dame Dash dudes
Pushed a Maserati sport, reading the 
Wanted to be Mike but he was never live at sports
Since golf is in he was on the drivin course
To live the rap life is what he was strivin for
Spendin cash at the bar to get credit
Drinkin Chaundon just because Big said it
They say Ye is but dude was big headed
Rocked the fur in the summer so somebody'd pet it
He had a fetish for shoes that's athletic
Pathetic on his MySpace page half nekkid
It's a shame what they do for fame and to be respected
Joe, you coulda got it if you never woulda stressed it
[Hook]
[Common]
They was one of them couples, people said they were the it
Unbreakable, like Bobby and Whit
Or Ryan and Reese, or Kimora and Russ
Relationships can be dead but look live to us
I guess we all been through it where we try too much
Losin yourself and you're lyin and stuff
Wishin for the diamond cuffs, in search of a ring
Where love is not a mystery it's everything
[Hook]
[Outro: Lily Allen]
Gets me down
Gets me down
Gets me down
Gets me down
Gets me down
Gets me
Love is not a mystery, it's everything


[Murphy Lee]
Whooooooooooo
Damn, that girl fine, that girl fine, that girl fine
Yo, yo, Kanye, yo turn it up, a little bit, whoo
[Hook]
Take notes while I take tokes to the marijuana smoke
One look and murder she wrote
She drop dead gorgeous, she drop dead..
[Kanye West {*over the hook*}]
Yo, this is a Roc-a-Fella, St. Lunatics collaboration
Chi-Town and St. Louis
She said she ain't never seen Murphy Lee befo'
[Murphy Lee]
I called her back from an earlier beep
Fo' in the mornin' they be like "Nah, I wasn't sleep"
Convenient whore stay on top of convenient stores
Keep pictures of me in their Victoria Secret drawer
I keep somethin' hot on tour
Can ya, Kenyatta, make sure they know before what is really in store
See I adore the ones that call me Torhi, true story
I created 'hood rats so these new mice bore me
See I normally settle for sevens, but eights I can't wait
Nines be wantin' time and dimes be wantin' dates
So know I got elevens and twelves
With at least thirteen or fourteen reasons why they fine as hell
I hit 'em up like Blu Cantrell
Hehehehehehehehe hell, I remember when she smashed LaBelle
See most women kinda sneaky like a six-year old
Hey yo they always in the summer, somethin' wrong with their nails
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
What's the point of havin' a girl that's drop dead
That you know don't like you?
She'll run over your head with a motorcycle
I mean the way you look is nice, but there's more to life boo
Cuz I could go to videos and get fo' just like you
I talked to your ex-boyfriend and took a census
But you don't read the cookbook, you just look at the pictures
Matter of fact, when's the last time you looked at the kitchen?
This is gettin' ridiculous, how you gettin' defensive?
Jimmy Choo, Frankie B., bitch you gettin' expensive
I know you fuckin' around, my sixth sense told me
That ain't no male friend that bought you the stereo
She said "He gay anyway, you don't know nothin' about Jamario"
[Hook]


[Intro: Mos Def]
La-da-da da-da da-da da-da da-da da
Blap!
[Hook: Kanye West]
We go through too much bullshit
Just to mess with these drunk and hot girls
She go through too much bullshit
Just to mess with these drunk and hot girls
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Driving around town looking for the best spot
For the drunk and hot girls
Up in the club look at here what we got
Some drunk and hot girls
Stop dancing with your girlfriend and come dance with me
Stop talking 'bout your boyfriend since he is not me
Stop running up my tab cause these drinks is not free
You drunk and hot girl
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I don't want to drop your friends off, I just want you
You drunk and hot girl
You want to sit down but we hit the drive-thru
You drunk and hot girl
Please don't fall asleep, baby, we almost back
Please don't throw up in the car, we almost crashed
Oh, now you sober, how'd I know you'd say that
You drunk and hot girl
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Mos Def]
Love the dangerous necessity that people seek
Without regard to where they are
The human heart is curious
Above all things
, love, the lights are low, your eyes are bright
The music plays, it's sweet delight
It's out of sight, I'm feeling right
Your dress is tight
Oh howwwwww, I want you right now
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
Don't tell me, you sing, you about to get a deal
You drunk and hot girl
"Ah da da da da." That's how the fuck you sound
You drunk and hot girl, yeah
You only live once, do whatever you like
I thought I'd be with you for only one night
Now I'm with this girl for the rest of my life
That drunk and hot girl
[Outro: Kanye West and Mos Def]
We go through too much bullshit just to mess with these drunk and hot girls
(A little sippy sippy)
We gonna through too much bullshit just to mess with these drunk and hot girls
(Want a little whisky)
(We go through too much bullshit to mess mess with these drunk
All of these drunk and hot girls)


[Remixed by Mike Dean and Kanye West (Produced by Noah “Detail” Fisher, Beyoncé Knowles, Timbaland, Jerome Harmon, BOOTS and Andre Proctor)]
[Intro: Danyèl Waro]
Kinm in kalot oté Mandela
Twé la pa mèt dan la gèl banna
Twé la pèt amwin
[Intro: Beyonce]
We be all night
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Woo! You will never need another lover
Woo! Cause you a milf and I'm a motherfucker
Told you give the drummer some, now the drummer cummin'
I'm pa rum pa pum pumin' all on your stomach
Yeah, tonight I see some super freaky hoes
That could go from bein' stripper to a super CEO
I don't know the way you do it, but you do it to me though
And you always told your girlfriends you need you a TV show
Now you got your own money, you don't need nobody else
But far as handlin' all that ass, I think you gon' need some help
Let me remind you, you got a, you got a great future behind you
You gotta tell me what we tryna do
I ain't no pastor, don't do missionary
I know good pussy when I see it, I'm a visionary
I know them haters talkin', always had us very wary
Yup! On the 35th of Nevuary
Yup! You love the way I'm turnt
After all the money you earned, still show daddy what you learned
That cowgirl, you reverse that cowgirl
You reverse, you reverse, and I impregnated your mouth, girl, ooooh
That's when I knew you could be my spouse, girl
We fuckin' all over the house, girl, we just messed up a brand new couch, girl
You ain't on site then you on Skype
I put you on that bike, you bound, girl
We too wild, won't turn down
We drunk in love, fuck them
[Verse 2: Beyonce]
I've been drinking, I've been drinking
I get filthy when that liquor get into me
I've been thinking, I've been thinking
Why can't I keep my fingers off it, baby? I want you, na-na
Why can't I keep my fingers off you, baby? I want you, na-na
Cigars on ice, cigars on ice
Feeling like an animal with these cameras all in my grill
Flashing lights, flashing lights
You got me faded, faded-faded, baby, I want you, na-na
Can't keep your eyes off my fatty, daddy, I want you, na-na
Drunk in love, I want you
[Bridge]
We woke up in the kitchen saying
"How the hell did this shit happen?" Oh baby, drunk in love
We be all night, last thing I remember is our
Beautiful bodies grinding up in that club, drunk in love
[Hook]
We be all night, love, love
We be all night, love, love
[Verse 3: Beyonce]
We be all night, and everything all right
No complaints from my body, so fluorescent under these lights
Boy, I'm drinking, park it in my lot, 7-11
I'm rubbing on it, rub-rubbing, if you scared, call that reverend
Boy, I'm drinking, get my brain right, Armand de Brignac, gangster wife
Louis sheets, he sweat it out like washrags, he wear it up
Boy, I'm drinking, I'm singing on the mic to my boy's toys
Then I fill the tub up halfway then ride it with my surfboard
Surfboard, surfboard
Graining on that wood, graining, graining on that wood
I'm swerving on that, swerving, swerving on that
Big body Benz serving all this, swerve, surfing all in this good-good
[Bridge + Hook]
[Verse 4: Jay Z]
Hold up, that D'ussé is the shit if I do say so myself
If I do say so myself, if I do say so myself
Hold up, stumble all in the house, time to back up all that mouth
That you had all in the car, talking 'bout you the baddest bitch thus far
Talking 'bout you be repping that Third, I wanna see all that shit that I heard
Know I sling Clint Eastwood, hope you can handle this curve, uh
Foreplay in a foyer, fucked up my Warhol
Slid the panties right to the side, ain't got the time to take drawers off
On sight, catch a charge I might
Beat the box up like Mike in '97 I bite
I'm Ike Turner, turn up, baby, no, I don't play
Now eat the cake, Anna Mae said, "Eat the cake, Anna Mae!"
I'm nice, for y'all to reach these heights
You gon' need G3, 4, 5, 6 flights
Sleep tight, we sex again in the morning
Your breasteses is my breakfast, we going in, we be all night
[Hook]
[Bridge]
I'm never tired, never tired
I been sippin', that's the only thing
That's keeping me on fire, we on fire
Didn't mean to spill that liquor all on my attire
I've been drinking, watermelon
I want your body right here, daddy, I want you, right now
Can't keep your eyes off my fatty, daddy, I want you
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I got a big ego, (hahaha)
I’m such a big ego, (uhuhuh)
I got a big, (eheheh), ego
She love my big, (eheheh), Ego
She stroke my big, (eheheh), Ego
I like to joke around a little bit but here we go
Welcome to the wonderful world
Of gold-plated Earl, cause
Everything I throw up, blow up
Talking to the girl
She said, "
Know what, grow up, you nasty,"
"I don’t understand why they trippin’, if you ask me,"
Flow is just the nicest
I admit the propane
I just spit, probably
Just raised the gas prices
Everybody in the club
Try and get as fresh as me
What you want dog
Trying to stay recession free
And spit, refreshingly
When I rock the stadium
You probably get sweaty
You should bring a extra tee
Now I’m standing next to Jay
Who standing next to B
You coulda been anywhere in the world
But you’re here with me
That’s good for my ego
Me and my ego
And it go wherever we go
My ego is my imaginary friend
He was with me when I was only imagining
I had dreams of the league
One day I play Kobe
I walk up to Puff and he already know me
Coulda let the dream killers, kill my self esteem
Or use the arrogance as a steam that power my dreams
And my ego
[Verse 2: Beyoncé]
It's on baby, let's get lost
You don't need to call into work cause you're the
 
boss
For real, want you to show me how you feel
I consider myself lucky, that's a big deal
Why? 
Well, you got the key to my heart
But you ain't gonna need it, I'd rather you open up my body
And show me secrets, you didn't know was inside
No need for me to lie
[Hook: Beyoncé]
It's too big, it's too wide
It's too strong, it won't fit
It's too much, it's too tough
He talk like this cause he can back it up
He got a big ego, such a huge ego
I love his big ego, it's too much
He walk like this cause he can back it up
[Verse 3: Beyoncé]
Usually I'm humble, right now I don't choose
You can leave with me or you could have the blues
Some call it arrogant, I call it confident
You decide when you find on what I'm working with
Damn I know I'm killing you with them legs
Better yet them thighs
Matter a fact it's my smile or maybe my eyes
Boy you a sight to see, kind of something like me
[Hook]
[Bridge: Beyoncé]
I, I walk like this cause I can back it up
I, I talk like this cause I can back it up
I, I can back it up, I can back it up
I walk like this cause I can back it up
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Beyoncé]
Ego so big, you must admit
I got every reason to feel like I'm that bitch
Ego so strong, if you ain't know
I don't need no beat, I can sing it with piano


[Hook]
Relax yourself or we'll back ya down
Relax yourself or we'll back ya down
Relax yourself or we'll back ya down
Relax yourself or we'll back ya down
Relax yourself or we'll back ya down
All day long man, we back ya down
[Consequence]
Homie check it out I got her mesmerized
So when a hooker choose Cons, she tellin you "Bye"
Street poetry is how ya boy get paid
And I wear no Escalade, metallic, black or beige
Yo when I walk up in the club you know I do not pay
Aiiyo my man Kanyeezy he got something to say
[Kanye West]
Aiiyo my name is Kanyeezy
 from the 
Roc-A fam
And where the Glocks don't jam, so where we pop them scrams
See I showed you on "The Champions" how we get down
So don't twist ya lips, I'm like Bobby Brown
You got B2K on all your bedroom wall
But if you be with Kan, gonna work ya walls
Straight from the South Side of them Chi-Town streets
The top three in the game, with these here beats
[Consequence]
And if you talk about him, ayo I take you out
Either with the nine or the tech's in his mouth
And let that dime gettin' friendly than the orgie's at eight
But y'all niggas don't shine so you couldn't relate
[Hook]
[Consequence]
Quence without the game, now he's back to ball
Drive you insane, drop a tat at the mall
You starin at my rose gold way too long
But I ain't scared of robbers, 
why I wear teflon
I took her on the ave and she expect me to trip
But I made up with no style while I bought me some kicks
So if you want the drama holler at ya boy
[Kanye West]
Original rude boy like Pastor Troy
The G-500 is my favorite toy
Cause he don't look like a thug or a hood
But he keep them gorilla's so we still be good
By the way my name is K, don't forget the A
And the N-Y-E, out N.Y.C
I'mma still rep the 'Go, no matter where I go
Everybody say I'm hot, I'm sayin I'm cold
I Hate when niggas leave the city and switch up they reps
On the real homie, I don't get down like that
I'mma milk the game, 'til we all can eat
[Consequence]
Now the Chocolate Factory is what I bump in my jeep
So roll me up a L, but don't lace it with leak
Cause that shit'll have me zonin for a couple of weeks
[Kanye West]
Now your momma told you let the cleavage show
Cause that's the best way to get a nigga with dough
They'll fake a pregnancy and call the attorney up
But she ain't know I'm cheaper than IKEA furniture
[Consequence]
Kanye, White, Malik, Little and D
Menace, Skates to Lou and 'em Puffs from L.B
They know the Consequence be wearin gold and ice
Cause I got out the projects, where it's flooded with mice
Ey shorty let me tell you 'bout the rules of my night
It seems they always keep on movin, I don't hit nothin twice
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook]
Now can I get an encore, do you want more?
Cookin' raw with the Brooklyn boy
So for one last time I need y'all to roar
Now what the hell are you waiting for
After me, there shall be no more
So for one last time, nigga, make some noise
[Verse 1]
Who you know fresher than Hov, riddle me that
The rest of y'all know where I'm lyrically at
Can't none of y'all mirror me back
Yeah, hearin' me rap is like hearin' G Rap in his prime
I'm Young H.O., rap's Grateful Dead
Back to take over the globe, now break bread
I'm in Boeing jets, Global Express
Out the country but the blueberry still connect
On the low, but the yacht got a triple deck
But when you Young, what the fuck you expect
 
yep, yep
Grand opening, grand closing
God damn, your man Hov cracked the can open again
Who you gonna find doper than him, with no pen
Just draw off inspiration
Soon you gonna see you can't replace him
With cheap imitations for this generation
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Look what you made me do, look what I made for you
Knew if I paid my dues, how will they pay you
When you first come in the game they try to play you
Then you drop a couple of hits; look how they wave to you
From Marcy to Madison Square
To the only thing that matters in just a matter of years
As fate would have it, Jay's status appears
To be at an all-time high, perfect time to say goodbye
When I come back like Jordan, wearing the 4-5
It ain't to play games with you, it's to aim at you, probably maim you
If I owe you I'm blowin' you to smithereens
Cocksucker, take one for your team
And I need you to remember one thing, I came, I saw, I conquered
From record sales to sold out concerts
So motherfucker if you want this encore
I need you to scream til your lungs get sore
[Interlude]
Ow, it's star time
This man is mean, he's killin' all y'all jive turkeys
Do y'all want more of the Jigga man
Well if y'all want more of the Jigga man
Then I need y'all to help me bring him back to stage
Say Hova, c'mon, say it, are y'all out there, c'mon, louder
Yeah, now see that's what I'm talking about
They love you Jigga, they love you Jigga
[Jay-Z]
I like the way this one feel, it's so muthafuckin' soulful, man
[Verse 3]
So this here is the victory lap
Then I'm leavin', that's how you get me back
After a year of them 16's it's 1.2
And that's 2.4, and I'm only doin' two
You wanted to gain attention new dudes
I can get you BET - and TRL, too
You want to be in the public, send your budget
Well fuck it, I ain't budgin'
Young did it to death, you gotta love it
Record companies told me I couldn't cut it
Now look at me: all star-studded
Golfer above par like I putted
All cause the shit I uttered was utterly ridiculous
How sick is this
You want to bang, send Kanye change, send Just some dust
Send Hip a grip, then you gotta spit
A little somethin' like this


[Kanye West: Verse 1]
I got a dirty mind I got filthy ways
I’m tryna bathe my ape in your Milky Way
I’m a legend
 
I'm irreverent
 
I be reverend
I’ll be so faaaaa-ar up
We don't give a fuuuh-uh-uck
Welcome to the danger zone
Step into the fantasy
You are not invited to the other side of sanity
They callin' me an alien a big headed astronaut
Maybe its because yo boy Yeezy get ass a lot
[Katy Perry: Verse 2]
You’re so hypnotizing
Could you be the devil
Could you be an angel
Your touch magnetizing
Feels like I am floating
Leaves my body glowing
They say be afraid
You’re not like the others
Futuristic lover
Different DNA
They don’t understand you
[Chorus: Katy Perry]
You're from a whole other world
A different dimension
You open my eyes
And I’m ready to go
Lead me into the light
Kiss me, ki-ki-kiss me
Infect me with your love and
Fill me with your poison
Take me, ta-ta-take me
Wanna be a victim
Ready for abduction
Boy, you’re an alien
Your touch so foreign
It’s supernatural
Extraterrestrial
[Katy Perry: Verse 3]
You're so supersonic
Wanna feel your powers
Stun me with your lasers
Your kiss is cosmic
Every move is magic
[Chorus]
You're from a whole other world
A different dimension
You open my eyes
And I’m ready to go
Lead me into the light
Kiss me, ki-ki-kiss me
Infect me with your love and
Fill me with your poison
Take me, ta-ta-take me
Wanna be a victim
Ready for abduction
Boy, you’re an alien
Your touch are foreign
It’s supernatural
Extraterrestrial
[Kanye West: Verse 4]
I know a bar out in Mars
Where they driving spaceships instead of cars
Cop a Prada space suit about the stars
Getting stupid high straight up out the jars
Pockets on Shrek
, 
rockets on deck
Tell me what's next? Alien sex
I'mma disrobe you
Then I'mma probe you
See I abducted you
So I tell you what to do
I tell you what to do, what to do
[Verse 5: Katy Perry]
Kiss me, ki-ki-kiss me
Infect me with your love and
Fill me with your poison
Take me, ta-ta-take me
Wanna be a victim
Ready for abduction
Boy, you’re an alien
Your touch are foreign
It’s supernatural
Extraterrestrial
Extraterrestrial
Extraterrestrial
Boy, you’re an alien
Your touch are foreign
It’s supernatural
Extraterrestrial


Yo, I'mma rise to the top cause it ain't in me to fail
Or die bustin' at the cops before they send me to jail
The same nigga ya serve with won't even send you the bail
And sail with some niggas tryin' to send me to hell
So whether
Rap or crack
Beats or streets
This summer I'm rockin' ice to beat the heat
Now I'm gonna cop a Benz 6 and tell 'em "Keep the Jeep
Keep the receipt
, 
keep the change, keep the game."
As long as I keep the fame and keep my name
Kanye to the
Motherfuckin' West
She said, "You from The Outfit?"
I told her, "Motherfuckin' yes."
So every time I spit, it's got to be fresh
So whether freestyle or written
What's the point of rhyme?
I'd rather hear somethin' bitten, as long as it's hittin'
Wack niggas
 grab my tracks, just get to shittin'
My niggas grab they gats, just get to spittin'
Faggot niggas be like, "Uh huh, no he didn't."
But I did
Ever since I hooked with Syndicate
And shit
I've been blazin' niggas ever since
Ya heard me?
Blazin' niggas ever since


[Hook- Kanye West]
Everybody
Let's go!
Don't stop baby, Don't stop me
Don't stop baby, Don't stop me
I like the way that you move
And girl you know how I do
[Verse 1- Fonzworth Bentley]
It's in your hip
I want to get right between your strip
Use it like Lancome lipstick
Scarlett, and frankly I really do care, madam
All you will, this is Sa-Ra fam, now back to ma'am
I know that you can move like that I saw you dance
And now you you gotta show out, make me a fan
Turn up the fan, we gonna sweat crazy
What's your favorite Gatorade, lady
Hadn't been shopping, Perrier water maybe
I hope you ain't hungry got mash but no gravy
But we can make some, the best of both juices
We can use this, this some new shit
Make it hot like Crisco
That's how my flow go
, shorty you ain't know?
If you ain't po, stop being so high post
My music ain't just for the siditty and pretty it's for
[Hook- Kanye West]
[Verse 2- Andre 3000]
Shorty you killin em hard with them lady pants
Simple elegance looking better when you dance
Chest to the sun with your thoroughbred stance
You gallop to the rhythms of a native drum chant
Your granny must be Navajo
Your mama do rodeo
, 
your papa do the saville row
I bite you, ain't no antidotes
The red blouse do arouse, I come at you like a matador
Does attract horny bulls
All the girls are waiting to see which one he pulls
Eenie meenie miney meenie prenuptial
Enforcer in the Porsche in case fools wanna duel
You'll cool your fuckin jets, who wanna be next?
Ooh, I'll probably get life if I let
One off, so I let em go like a pro
Sir Andre with an accent 3 triple 0
Ben-jamin, Lauren is the middle name
That was given by my mama, success was on her brain
Rain? Bentley Farns got the umbrellas
Benjamin got the sweaters, hey what more can we sell em?
Sun, spring will bring the parasol
Now watch him parasail to entertain us all
[Hook- Kanye West]


[Intro]
Maybe they seen me on the videos
Or they heard me on the radio
[Hook]
Tip tried to tell me but damn I wouldn’t listen
Ye' tried to tell me but man I wouldn’t listen
Damn I should have listened
What would you do if it was you in my position?
Maybe they seen me on the videos
And they put me in the damage zone
Damn I should have listened
So for now I'm just laying low
Damn I should have listened
[Verse 1]
Cons, what makes you think you are any better than the rest?
If your homies wouldn't flip on you for a check
They try to stick you up for that chain around your neck
Even if they did man there is no disrespect
It's the rules of engagement, you just got engaged
Tryin to rewrite history before they turn the page
But that’s when they turn and aim
Shit you better learn the game
I mean 
what
 you thought would happen once you finally got ya stacks up
The same boy who would tell them fools to back up
Is mad as hell when he sees you hold your plaques up
To get them dranks in him (now he wanna act up)
To tell the friend who tell the friend to tell the friend
And since there's strength in numbers, jealousy begins
And it doesn’t matter if it’s true or it's not
These are the Consequences when they say that you’re hot
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Same old movie being re-enacted
They see me in that Benz coupe now they wanna jack 'em
But before they would have backed em
Now they screamin let me at em
Maybe they seen me on the videos
Or they heard me on the radio
And now they coming at me crazy yo
That’s why I gotta tuck the 80 yo
But how you gonna front on baby bro
Who's trying to go even though you told him take it slow
I guess you seem convinced
That they would put a suit on me like g's to gents
But I'm like a tea-bag when you put me in the corner
I just get stronger when my name's in hot water
So whether is true or not
These are the consequences when they say that you're hot
[Hook]
[Outro]
Everybody told me told me told me told me baby baby
Damn I should have listened
Everybody told me baby everybody told me told me
Damn I should have listened


[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
Hey do you have any black inside you?
Would you like some?
 (Like some?)
Ha, you know you got a right to do whatever you like to
Don C, we got the right one, that right one
In the club, always the flyest
Always got her hands the highest
She stopped drinking Diet Coke
She on that coke diet
She bat, she bat her eyelids
That girl is so wired
I know she so tired, but ooh, she on fire
Hundred dollar bill, look at you, look at you
A hundred dollar bills, this ain't new, this ain't new
From that Paris, Lindsay, Britney, Mary-Kate and Whitney
People say that they clean, motherfucker don't bullshit me
[Hook]
All the girls standing in the line for the bathroom
All the girls standing in the line for the bathroom
All the girls standing in the (all the girls standing in the)
All the girls standing in the line for the bathroom
[Verse 2 - Pharrell]
You left your nigga home
You said you at your sister's
You and your girlfriends' wrong
You in here taking pictures
You ain't gotta tell us
You spending daddy's cash
Your girlfriend's jealous
You got the fattest ass
One down to pee, one trying to leave
It's hot as fuck but you just dying to ski
It's clear as black and white, like a fat panda
Your brain is Magic City
Your nose is Atlanta
I said think about your future
You can't do that tomorrow
But you don't hear a word, you see that SLR
You like "Hey Pharrell, I ain't trying to kill your mood
But I can do the Star Trak sign; see? Killa dude"
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Lupe Fiasco]
Now she got high hopes
Just to say hi to us
She want the high life
She like them higher ups
She know we high rolling
She know it's high stakes
That's why she high speeding, out on that highway
She say she high maintenance
She say she high fashion
She say she high priced
I think she high cap'n
She had her high heels, I had my high tops
Sipping a Hi-C
, 
eating a Hydrox
I asked her how it feel up on this high rise
She said this high score, this was the highlight
She got her hi-Pod bumpin' her hi-Tunes
This higher education; welcome to high school
[Hook]
[Verse 4 - Pusha T]
Like I got a crown made of powder
Everybody knows who the king of the coke flow be
All I hear is "oh, key" every line is "oh, key"
All you rappers okey-dokey
Nigga, you don't paint pictures
I paint Murakamis on you niggas
And Daimer Speedy Bag, bitches
Buy and sell, I can accommodate your clientele
Shamu weight, motherfucker, breaks your scales
P to the usha, with a name like that, what you look for
More or less like P with the hook up
Hit me on the bat phone if you want it cooked up
Ride with me, as I'm switching lane to lane
In my 
Play Cloths
 
as I'm gripping grain
In a hail of bullets how I write my name
Whether soft or hard, motherfucker, 'caine is 'caine
[Hook]


[Hook]
You might think you do
But you don't know
It's like a dream come true
But you don't know
[Verse 1]
Man I promise, I'm so self-conscious
That's why you always see me with at least one of my watches
Rollies and Pasha's done drove me crazy
I can't even pronounce nothing, pass that ver-say-see
Man I spent four hundred bucks on this
Just to be like, nigga you ain't up on this
That's why I'm iced out, medallion heavy on the wrist
My niggas servin' the checks like the first and fifth-teenth
So insecurr, cut that coke 'til it's so unpure
We all need furs by December the third
Cause you heard, Chicago winters is extra burr
Bricks, nicks, nigga so herb
Hustlin' to the whole world, never sober
Seats in the Rover, soft as sofurrs
Ballin so hurr 'till I need a chauffeur
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Man I promise, she's so self-conscious
She has no idea what she's doing in college
That major that she majored in don't make no money
But she won't drop out, her parents will look at her funny
Now, tell me that ain't insecurr
The concept of school seems so secure
Sophomore, three yurrs, ain't picked a carurr
She like, fuck it, I'll just stay down here and do hair
Cause that's enough money to buy shorty a few pairs of new Airs
Cause her baby-daddy don't really care
She's so precious with the peer pressure
Couldn't afford a car so she named her daughter Alexis
She had hair so long that it looked like weave
Then she cut it all off, now she look like Eve
And she be dealin' with some issues that you can't believe
Single black female addicted to retail, and well
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
It may seems we living the nigga's American dream
But the people highest up got the lowest self-esteem
The prettiest people do the ugliest things
As any means to get that green
Cause society done turned us all into fiends
For the road to riches and diamond rings
And what about the teens moms hearts that broke?
Niggas got killed over Starter coats
But I can feel why the shorties be mad as shit
Without the Jordans, he feelin' inadequate
He be feelin' so insecure
Dawg, why that nigga got it? Man life unfair
He be feelin' like fuck the world and furthermore
Feelin' like it's worth
Killin' a person for
But when that pain's gone, it just hurts some more
It seems the sun never shine, that we searchin' for
[Hook x2]


[Hook]
Damn, here we go again
Common passed on this beat, I made it to a jam
Now everything I'm not, made me everything I am
Damn, here we go again
People talking shit, but when shit hit the fan
Everything I'm not, made me everything I am
[Verse 1]
I'll never be picture perfect Beyoncé
Be light as Al B., or black as Chaun-cey
Remember him from Blackstreet, he was as black as the street was
I never be as laid back as this beat was
I never could see why people reach a
Fake ass facade that they couldn't keep up
You see how I creeped up
You see how I played the big role in "Chicago" like Queen Latifah
I never rock a mink coat in the sum-time like Killa Cam
Or rock some mi-mink boots in the winter time like Will.I.Am
[Hook]
Let me know if you feel it man
I just messed up on my rap, live TV like damn
But hey, hey here we again yeah
He-here we go again
People talking this but when this hit the fan
Everything I'm not made me
Now break it down
[Verse 2]
Yo, off the top of the dome, dome
Shout out to Chi-town where I call home
Coast to coast, LA to New York to London to Paris
Shout out to Barry
That's my security guard
Cause my rhymes is hard
Listen up I got to praise god
For the number one spot that I got cause I'm hot
And everything I am cause of everything I was not
Cause I never was shot
They said I'd never make raps to hit the block
Or never sold a crack rock
But now everybody on the jock
And I got the game lock
Everybody bring it back
With the rap I don't know how to act I go crazy
Backstage, Beyoncé and Jay-Z
And Lebron
 and I'm gone
I'm the don, number one
Keep going going on
Got to keep it going on
I keep goin' goin' goin' yeah
I keep flowin' flowin' flowin'
Yo, I meant to freestyle, I meant to mess up
Y'all meant to dress up
Ay yo, I'm fresh up
Who fresher than Mr. West uh
No-no-no-no-nobody I'm talking all y'all right now
The blogs, the blogs
Yo, they try to dis me
But they can not see I'm on Saturday Night getting busy
Y'all wish ya can be me, hey mama can you see me?
Hey daddy can you see me?
I'm rocking on your TV
Y'all thought they'd never let me back in NBC
, see?
La La La Laaaa


[Kanye West]
Now that you're tuned in
I suggest you zoom in
And claim Puff dead
I'm out the tomb then
I'm married to the game like the bride and the groom is
If you don't want to move then leave the room in
See you the type of nigga believe the rumors
But I'm the type to show you what the truth is
And show you how the coupe is
And you don't know where the roof is
And the interior is stupid
So I'mma shoot my shot and just do it
Cause I can't stop my love for the music
Been a decade since Biggie dropped "Juicy"
When I think back sometimes I still lose it
And feel the ambiance
From the screams of the audience
And y'all response


[Verse 1 - Diddy]
The world at my sneakers
Gold pieces moulded with Jesus features
Give streets the fever from the way I spit the Ether
Came on the scene at 19 a gritty fiend for
Money, power, respect, get it by any means uh
New Yorker, slick talker, walk like a brick flipper
Decimal doctor, multiply to get richer
I'm a entrepreneur, I'm the heart of the city
I'm a part of the sewers, I'm the honorable diddy
I taste the dirt in my sweat, that's from the Harlem struggle
All in my swagger that's the reason why I got my hustle
I got the highest stature, Miami diamond flasher
I got you caught in the most flyest and stylish rapture
My signature next to Christopher Wallace, get it honest
My first album through to him, that was my biggest project
Now I'm the illest known to walk like the illest soldier
And when I smoke, only roll up with the illest doja
You sit and mull it over my venom a killer cobra
It's Harlem USA I diddy bop and shop with Oprah
(Yeah nigga, what.)
[Hook - Cee-Lo]
Nigga what
From my voice I'm killing 'em
I shed my blood
About everything I love
[Verse 2 - Diddy]
To the eye blacker, over handed face the palm smacker
Good scrapper, cat stacker, good wood packer
Tear up the Dom P wrappers faster
Platinum patrone splasher, fuck cris, spit atcha
I call it rich ignorant laughter
Black American express card all grey now, its scratched up
From constant usage, girl kidnapper, pop tags off tags
Poppa making monster music, and still I Costra Nostra
Big roaster, skin cola, girl when I send for ya
Bring friends wontcha?
I'm from the 80's NYC 5 percent of culture
Breeze through with that old school blue malaroma
Wrist glowing, ho-ing, fly off in a Boeing
Slide off with your ho, and spend six figures on her
My persona, Sean John unforgivable cologne
Copping the biggest diamonds makes me sorta bi-polar
Ferrari to Phantom, vehicles for high rollers
The studded chain around my neck makes the night colder
(Yeah nigga, what.)
[Hook - Cee-Lo]
[Verse 3 - Nas]
The Queens Crypt keeper
, 
Mets hat rocker
Pretty bitch slobber, Ex-robber
Heister, 
my own life biographer
Pants sagging, Bentley whipping
Summer jam stopper, Tim truck wearing
Pineapple rocker, then I spray choppers
A doctor in the jungles of Haiti made me
Draped in paisley bandanas
Suits with Adam Stacey
Cigar like Dick Tracy
Its dark I get spacey
Alcohol and laced weed
That was part of my 80's
The Cartier consigieres be near me
Canary yellow cuts in my pinky yearly
Liz Taylor tried to joke me
Cause I keep it green like the other side of Bill Bixby
When he gets mean
Think fast 'fore I blast hoes
Like Grassy Knoll
Went from scraggly old clothes to the illest fashion
And realest rappin'
Pablo bath on the scene, won't go back to no green
Strictly paper cruising through the strip in Vegas
Two of New York's biggest niggas
Y'all used to hate us, but now you love us
Nas and Diddy, power hustlers
(Yeah nigga, what)
[Hook - Cee-Lo]


Art Basel
 is the only place in America where a guy with a net worth of roughly $45.13 can wind up staying at a mansion called Crazy Bitch, partying with Lindsay Lohan, and having a run-in with Conrad Hilton’s spoiled sperm experiment, otherwise known as Barron.
Over the past decade, the annual art fair, which used to be cool, has become a decadent and depraved spectacle in which celebrities jockey to mingle with artists they’d otherwise spit on, and everyone is a brand or branding something. I’ve been coming down for almost 10 years. Last year’s event was a marketing melee so overwrought with horrible corporate events that I vowed never to return. That is until I got a contract from Cy Waits, Paris Hilton’s ex-boyfriend, who helps run the popular XS nightclub in Las Vegas.
I’m a freelance writer, but I also co-own a bar in the East Village and dabble in event planning. My contract was to help Waits and make a little extra money. What I didn’t plan on: becoming an artist myself. My performance masterpiece, Lohan Thug, was conceived by accident. It was, however, the best piece at Basel, where most people were pawning off their soiled underwear as art. Lohan Thug focuses on what happens when the best media outlet (TMZ) accuses an accidental artist (me) of beating up a quasi-famous person (Barron Hilton) on orders from a real famous person (Lindsay Lohan)—and the artist is forced to run from the cops. It’s a major addition to the American canon and a comment on absolutely everything. Here’s how it came to be:
A week before the fair I learned that Waits’ new club in Miami wasn’t ready to open. So my business partners and I decided to quickly move our events—a party by A$AP Rocky with DIS Mag, another for Bullett Magazine with Tamaryn, etc.—to other venues. At the last minute we also had to book a place to stay. We were lucky. Some Palm Beach friends had other friends who wanted to stay in a mansion, so we linked up and rented a $20 million Star Island pad next-door to Puffy and Leo.
One of the people renting the house with us just so happened to be Lohan’s current boyfriend, whom I won’t name. So Lohan decided to stay with us and hang out. It made sense. Lohan is Andy Warhol’s wet dream—a child star gone rogue, who grows up to be an American badass. If she were in the fine arts, her rebellion would be celebrated à la Dash Snow. Were she a eurozone politician, she would be one “bunga bunga” away from reelection. But as a film actress, she is crucified by the puritanical press for the very things most people do in their 20s. And never mind that she’s hugely talented. But I digress.
I met Lohan the first day we arrived at the mansion. We were in the kitchen, and I told her she was on dish duty. She hardly flinched, until I said I was kidding, and then she laughed and said “Thank God!” She really is a good actor. We chatted for awhile about Bret Easton Ellis’ great script for The Canyons, a film Lohan starred in that I’ve bought on pay-per-view like nine times. All our friends agreed not to party-hop—we wanted to find one place and stay there. 
We talked about going to Kendrick Lamar’s performance, but then said nah, he’s a fake bitch who can’t rap, let’s go to LIV.
LIV is probably the best nightclub in the city. We left the house around 11 p.m. and hopped in someone’s cool SUV. We hung out backstage behind the DJ, and at about 2 a.m., Kanye West and Kim Kardashian showed up and sat next to us. Sandy Kim, the photographer, was taking photos of all of us, and LIV’s owner David Grutman tried to kill her and me for taking pictures of Kimye—even though we were working for him the next night! Gotta love Basel. Lindsay Lohan, Kanye West, Kim Kardashian. Now that is contemporary American art.
The next day I ran into Lohan a few times. Her brother Michael cooked us a feast of hamburgers and hot dogs, which were a real treat. But mostly, I worked. It was 5 a.m. by the time I got home to the rented mansion and discovered a huge party. I didn’t know anyone there, the crowd was lame, and I went to bed.
In the morning I woke up to discover that a bunch of people had been up all night doing Molly. My friend’s name was on the lease of this mansion, and we didn’t want anyone to trash it, so we started kicking people out. I walked out to the patio, and I saw this blond brosef in a top hat and John Lennon sunglasses. He seemed nice at first, but when I asked him to leave, he went bonkers.
“Don’t fuck with me. Do you know who my sisters are?”
“No, dude. I just woke up. Stop. Leave.”
“Paris and Nicky!”
As in Paris and Nicky Hilton. Barron got in my face and wouldn’t shut up about his stupid family. Eventually things got so heated that he pushed me. And that’s when the alleged assault, which, of course, I deny, took place. (I imagine he wouldn’t have even gotten cut if it wasn’t for those stupid sunglasses.)
A few minutes later I left to meet up with some friends in South Beach. But apparently Barron called his sister, and she convinced him to alert TMZ
. “No one fucks with my family and gets away with it,” she told the Internet.
Funnily enough, a few hours later a woman tapped my shoulder and entered the nightclub booth where I was sitting. It was Nicky Hilton. Unknowingly, she attended my event at the Delano hotel. I asked how Barron was doing—she didn’t know who I was—and she said he was fine, just a few scratches. I ran into Paris that night too, but didn’t talk to her.
The next day a reporter friend called to say that Miami police had my name and were about to go public with it. Someone leaked my number to a bunch of media outlets. Suddenly Art Basel became Snitch Basel. All these people diming me out didn’t realize they were giving my name to some of the same reporters who drink at my bar—and who were hanging out with me in Miami.
It’s funny that here in Florida, where George Zimmerman got away with shooting and killing an unarmed teen on public property, police are hunting me for allegedly punching some dude who stepped to me and wouldn’t leave my rental.
So now I’m down in the Florida Keys, like some Jim Harrison character on the lam, waiting out this storm of stupidity. I’ve always wanted to go to Cuba by boat, and that’s how Lohan Thug ends. The Hiltons represent everything that sucks about America, and I’ll be happy to get away from them. The irony, of course, is that when Fidel Castro came to power in 1959, he took over the Havana Hilton. Say what you want about the man, but he knew how to spot an asshole from 90 miles away. That’s why he’d never be caught dead at Art Basel.


WHOO!
[Hook]
Memph' Bleek always smokin that la-la-la (HOO)
Beanie Sigel always smokin that la-la-la (HOO)
Kanye track smoke like la-la-la (HOO)
It's the R.O.C. mami, sing our lullaby
C'mon!
[Hook]
Excuse me miss, I'm the shit
You should come, hang with me, basically
Hold up, skip all the singin' let's get right tonight mami
[Jay-Z]
I know my English ain't as modest as you like
But come, get some, you little bums
I take the cake from under the baker's thumbs
I bake the cake, get two of them for one
Then I move the weight like I'm Oprah's son
Uh, I'll show you how to do this son
Young don't mess with chicks in Burberry paddings
Fake Manolo boots straight from Steve Madden (u-uh)
He padded hisself the rap J.F.K., you wanna pass for my Jaqueline Onassis
Then, hop ya ass out that S-class
Lay back in that Maybach, roll the best grass, I ask
Have you in your long-legged life
Ever seen a watch surrounded by this much pink ice?
Look but don't touch, motherfucker think twice
Cause the gat that I clutch got a little red light
Need a light?
[Hook]
To smoke that la-la-la
Beanie Sigel always smoking that la-la-la
Memph' Bleek always smoking that la-la-la
It's the R.O.C. mami, sing our lullaby
C'mon!
[Hook]
Excuse me miss, I'm the shit
You should come, hang with me, basically
Hold up, skip all the singin' let's get right tonight mami
[Jay-Z]
We got brothers full of Arm'i, mami's in Manolo
Bags by Chanel, all Louis Vuitton logos
All attracted to Hov' because they know dough
When they see him, whips be European
If you're a ten, chances you're with him
If you're a five, you know you ridin' with them
Sick with the pen nigga, no physician in the world could fix him
No prescription, you could prescribe to subside, his affliction
He's not a sane man, he's more like reign man - twitchin'
You can't rain dance on his picnic
No Haitian voodoo, no headless chickens can dead his sickness
No Ouija board, you can't see me dog, nigga you CB-4
This ain't Chris Rock bitch, it's the R.O.C. bitch
And I'm the franchise like a Houston Rocket, Yao Ming!
[Hook]
Still smokin that la-la-la
Memph' Bleek still smokin that la-la-la
Beanie Sigel, Desert Eagle, the four-ty five
It's the R.O.C. baby, sing our lullaby
C'mon!
[Hook]
Excuse me miss, I'm the shit
You should come, hang with me, basically
Hold up, skip all the singin' let's get right tonight mami
[Verse Three: Kanye West]
She playin she hate when I'm name droppin
So when I talk rap, she gon' change topics
But I got a plan B that's planned out, for when things don't pan out
Hov' tellin ya mind brother, I'mma play shy brother
So you take the Destiny Child girl in the Coupe?
Then I'mma try bag the ones that got kicked out the group
I figured that'll be simple, I'll just help 'em with their demo
Help 'em to the limo, play the upboard instrumentals
And she - grabbed my tattoo, peeped my credentials
And she - grabbed my pants, felt the potential
And I - rubbed 'bout every essential
That have fun breakin her fundamentals
Excuse me miss, the artist of the new millenium
Has finally stopped drivin that blue Millenium
And got a good of trenny and filled it with plenty of Henney
And Remi and weed, 'til she higher than Hilliam
[Hook]
If she pass me, smoke that la-la-la
Memphis Bleek always smokin that la-la-la
Beanie Sigel, Desert Eagle, the four-ty five
It's the R.O.C. bitch, sing our lullaby
C'mon!
[Hook]
Excuse me miss, I'm the shit
You should come, hang with me, basically
WHOA, skip all the singin' let's get right tonight, mami


[Meyers]: 
Fashion is obviously very important to you. You’re designing again, in fashion.
 Tell me, what’s the difference in how you approach fashion to how you approach music? Is 
it similar, is it
 completely different?
[West]: 
Everything in the world is exactly the same.
[Meyers]: Alright, great. I don’t think we’re done but I think I’m going to sign off.
[West]: Meaning like, you can do comparable people like - who would you compare Daniel Day-Lewis or Phillip Seymour Hoffman to musically, or in fashion, directing, architecturally? Who was your favorite teacher when you were growing up? It’s certain people that when - that teacher when you’re in eighth grade, that this person really cared and you knew this person cared about you as a student and gave everything they had and they were meant to do that. It’s other people that were just like getting a check or something. It’s all the same. You know, for me I give you paintings, sonic paintings. 
I have synesthesia; I can see sound in front of me.
 So, when I want to do fashion, I just want to give you sculptures. 
So it’s like Michelangelo; the church wanted him to paint, and he just wanted to do sculptures.
 So the hard – the difficult thing for me that everyone doesn’t understand, I just want to be able to use marble and make sculptures. 
But, due to the fact that I’m a celebrity, all these different things they’re like “no, you can’t do this, you have to do this kind of line.”
So, it’s kind of the first of its kind so that’s the reason why there’s been a lot of confusion as to why I want to do it, to why is he getting so frustrated about it. It’s like: why don’t you just do this? It’s an overall creative expression. Like I have a friend, 
Yves Béhar
, that designed the 
Jawbone wristband
 and stuff, and the 
Jambox
 and everything. As a designer, you know, he's not in a box to only design, you know, a speaker. He can design whatever he wants and I'm like, that's the type of creative expression and freedom any creative, you know, wants.
And as, you know, get really successful at one thing you start to grow, and you're like - you feel like you can do more things, and your shoe starts to get a little bit tight, and you do everything you can to get a bigger shoe so you can walk further and run faster. And people are like now in this day and age, if you don't believe it, it's like they're like "No, Kanye, you can't run faster. This is the limit that was made. This is the walls that Michael Jackson broke down for you, and Jay Z and Russell Simmons broke down for you. This is the end of it. So I'm in the process, 2013 all of the controversy about why - 
I'm in the process of breaking down walls that people will understand 10 years from now - 20 years from now.


[Verse 1 - Jamie Foxx]
Last night me and my dogs were hanging out
Tired of being cramped up in the house
We were simply celebrating life
Off from work today so it's alright
But all those ups and downs had me in a twist
Started dancing with this model chick
And then every record became my favorite song
And that is all that I remember
[Hook]
Cause I had one too many drinks
And ended up at the Embassy
With this pretty little thing from Memphis, Tennessee
It was a one night extravaganza
[Verse 2 - Jamie Foxx]
When I woke up from last night's avoutrie
Baby girl was laying next to me
Shoes and clothes were scattered everywhere
I got dressed and got up out of there
But not before I called for me a cab
Hung over from all the drinks I had
And now I'm telling my story to you
Everything that I remember
[Hook x2]
[Jamie Foxx (with ad-libs)]
Extravanganza
Extravavganza
Only was an extravaganza
Yes it was the things that I remember
And I remember
[Verse 3 - Kanye West]
Bein' at the bar tryin' ask what that hypno hit fo' (Hit fo')
Knowin' I can't afford to get mo' (Get mo')
Here's a broke nigga tricked buy one bottle and sip slow (sip slow)
Or, or leave the club now
Do like I did, come back when u get dough
A fishstick nigga now we messing with lobsters
We messin' with Grammies, we messin' with Oscars
You messin' with that dranky drank
Plus you puffin' on that stanky stank
In the morning you gon' draw a blank
The hotel said y'all was on 'em
My girl wasn't on shit, I picked the wrong one
Steady talkin' bout I ain't like them other girls
Well tonight I'm tryin' to find them other girls
Bring they own rubber girl
Never meet ya mother girl
You know they love it when you love 'em
And they tell they friends girl
[Hook x2 (with ad-libs from Kanye West)]


[Hook]
And I can see it with my eyes closed,
 now
Feeling like my life froze
I’m about to hit the ground
[Verse 1]
I sold my soul to the devil: that's a crappy deal
Least it came with a few toys like a Happy Meal
This game you could never win
Cause they love you then they hate you then they love you again
Get away from me misery
Get away from me lonliness
Get away from me fake bitches, I can’t take the phoniness
Get away from me wack tracks
I can only make only hits
I’m an only child lost in the World
Where do the lonely kids go when the bell ring?
It's feeling like Hell rings
Bringing me back down
Checking my background
Its ironic whats happening
Imagine if I didn’t have the ends
I would’nt have so many imaginary friends
I’m spaced out Dogg, I be on that moon talk
Wonder if God ask Mike how to moonwalk
I swear to momma wish me and my father talk more
I stopped visiting around the time I was a sophmore
I guess everything I hate about me I see in him
And we ain’t finna change, so we’ll never agree again
Till then I’ll be pouring out my soul
Just a few things I see with my eyes closed
[Hook]
And I can see it with my eyes closed, now
Feeling like my life froze
I’m about to hit the ground
[Verse 2]
I sold my soul to the devil
I know its a crappy deal
At least it came with a few toys
Like a Happy Meal
I’m spaced out dog
I be on that moontalk
I wonder if God asked Mike how to Moonwalk?
You know the entertainment Angels
Adriana for Giselle
Let's exchange Angels
Photoshoot at my crib
Lets exchange angles
Rockin nothin but them Tom Binns bangles
My heart so anxious, gettin' anxiety
Begging one of these fuckin fashion houses to hire me
They say I’ve been an asshole
I said if you acquire me
I can be a quiet me, call it verbal dieting
Give me your herbal chai tea
I’ll be calm as Tai Chi
With a bad white bitch like Ice-T
I’m not right dog, I’m slightly off
I’m paranoid; like bonin’ raw dog
And wakin up with a slight cough
Yea, that’ll make ya dick quite soft
Plus my neck hurt too lemme take all this ice off
Never meant to hurt you, I should’ve had nights off
But it cost too much to live and I never took the price off
[Hook]


[George Bush]
"I'm not a hater... 
I don't hate Conway West.
 I was talking about an environment in which people were willing to say things that hurt. 
Nobody wants to be called a racist if in your heart you believe in equality of races."


[Hook: John Legend]
And I can see it with my eyes closed, now
Feeling like my life froze
I’m about to hit the ground
[Verse 1: Snoop Dogg]
Sippin’ 
yac
 
while I elevate my mind state
Hand by the burner in case a nigga try to violate
Never going down, stay rising like Andre
Cause my corner back every thing the don say
Long Beach, yeah I yell it out in every song
Err’y day, err’y night till I’m carried home
Forever known, big ballin’, try it in the city
Then yelling out swish way before it in the net
And I ain't knocking a niggas hustle, it’s all a game
And when they mention the best, will they call your name?
There's only winners and losers, ain't no in between
You either hit the hall of fame or you fall to shame
And you ain't got to wonder where my place at
Pepsi blue rags sorta poppin, bitch taste that
One hit of the bong will blow ya face back
LMFAO to the bank
, boy, 
ASAP
[Hook: John Legend]
And I can see it with my eyes closed, now
Feeling like my life froze
I’m about to hit the ground
[Verse 2: Snoop Dogg]
I do it cause I feel it
Live it like I’m talkin’
Flow so straight but won't a nigga try and walk in it
I’m so high, yeah the weed, I’m still sparking it
My bitch bad and my diamonds still sparkling
Got the competition shaking like parkinsons
Bread's in the bag, call it good marketing
Life’s a bitch but I don’t cartigan?
Thats what a word to the third letter
Shots, shots, shots to me and my cheddar
Run these emcee’s I’m tougher than leather
Vietnemese eyes tighter than ever
Fuck with the Dogg I’m biting whomever
Cause I don came from a long path
Only God knows how long the Dogg has
Cause like time we all pass
So if you ever taste success, just pray it’s from a tall glass
[Hook: John Legend]
And I can see it with my eyes closed, now
Feeling like my life froze
I’m about to hit the ground
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I sold my soul to the devil that's a crappy deal
Least it came with a few toys like a happy meal
This game you could never win
Cause they love you then they hate you then they love you again
Get away from me misery
Get away from me lonliness
Get away from me fake bitches, I can’t take the phoniness
Get away from me wack tracks
I can only make only hits
I’m an only child lost in the World
Where did the lonely kids, go when the bell rings
It's feeling like hell rings
Bringing me back down
He's checking my background
Its ironic whats happening
Imagine if I didn’t have the ends
I would’nt have so many imaginary friends
I’m spaced out dog, I be on that Moon talk
Wonder if God ask Mike how to moon walk
I swear to momma wish me and my father talk more
I stopped visiting around the time I was a sophmore
I guess everything I hate about me I see in him
And we ain’t finna change, so we won’t agree again
Till then I’ll be pouring out my soul
Just a few things I see with my eyes closed
[Hook: John Legend]
And I can see it with my eyes closed, now
Feeling like my life froze
I’m about to hit the ground


[Verse 1]
I was rollin' around, in my mind it occurred
What if God was a her?
Would I treat her the same? Would I still be runnin' game on her?
In what type of ways would I want her?
Would I want her for her mind or her heavenly body?
Couldn't be out gettin' bogus with someone so godly
If I was wit' her would I still be wantin' my ex?
The lies, the greed, the weed, the sex
Wouldn't be ashamed to give her part of my check
Wearin' her cross, I mean the heart on my neck
Her, I would reflect on the streets of the Chi'
Ride wit' her, cause I know for me she'd die
Through good and bad call on her like I'm chirpin' her
Couldn't be jealous cause other brothers worship her
Walk this earth for her, glory, I'm grateful
To be in her presence I try to stay faithful
[Hook]
Faithful to the end
Faithful to the end
Faithful to the end
I'd like to be her very best friend
[Verse 2]
He worked with her, she was his lady's best friend
Even if they don't try some ladies test men
And this was a test that was bigger than him
Some believe its the nature that is given to men
He had a good gig, a wife, a kid, a decent home
One reason or another couldn't find peace at home
She asked, "Why do men always have to stray?"
He said, "I'm bad, not as bad as Eric Benet"
"I used to take 'em out to eat but they wasn't really eatin'
Mighta got a little head but I wasn't really cheatin'"
It's hard when your lady don't believe what you say
And what you did in the past you gotta live with today
She asked if they could spend the night together
He thought, and said, "I'm tryin' to get my life together"
Went home to his lady, these were his confessions
"Baby you a blessin' and my best friend"
[Hook]
[Bridge]
(Bilal with his voice overlapping) Faithful to the end
(Bilal) Faithful to the end
(John Legend singing)
(John Legend & Bilal) I'm gonna be, I'm gonna be, I'm gonna be so faithful
(John Legend & Bilal) I'm gonna be, I'm gonna be so faithful
(Repeat 3x)
(Bilal) So
(Repeat 3x)
(John Legend) So
(John Legend & Bilal) So faithful
(Bilal) So
(Bilal) So
(Bilal) So
(John Legend) So
(John Legend) So
(John Legend & Bilal) That's what I'm gonna do
(John Legend) Faithful to the end
(John Legend) That's what I'm gonna do
(John Legend) Faithful to the end
(John Legend) That's what I'm gonna do
(John Legend) Faithful to the end
(John Legend) Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah


[Intro: Kanye West]
How's your son? (all the things)
He made the team this year? (all, all, all the things things)
Aight, they said he wasn't tall enough
(...all that glitters is not gold
And all gold is not reality
Real is what you lays on me)
Ma we here we gon' cook this Sunday ok?
That's a new girlfriend?
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
This is family business
And this is for the family that can't be with us
And this is for my cousin locked down, know the answer's in us
This why I spit it in my songs so sweet
Like a photo of your granny's picture
Now that you're gone it hit us
Super hard on Thankgiving and Christmas, this can't be right
Yeah you heard the track I did man, This Can't Be Life
Somebody please say grace so I can save face
And have a reason to cover my face
I even made you a plate, soul food, know how Granny do it
Monkey bread on the side, know how the family do it
When I brought it why the guard have to look all through it?
As kids we used to laugh
Who knew that life would move this fast?
Who knew I'd have to look at you through a glass?
And look, tell me you ain't did it then you ain't did it
And if you did, then that's family business
[Hook: Choir]
And I don't care 'bout (all the diamond rings)
They don't mean a thing (all, all, all the things)
All these fancy things
I tell you that all (all the glitter) my weight in gold
Now all I know I know all these things
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
This is family business
And this is for everybody standing with us
Come on, let's take a family Grammy picture
Abi, remember when they ain't believe in me?
Now she like "See, that's my cousin on TV"
Now, we gettin' it and we gon' make it
And they gon' hate it
 and I'm his favorite
I can't deny it, I'm a straight rider
But when we get together be electric slidin'
Grandma, get 'em shook up
Aw naw, don't open the photo book up
I got an Aunt Ruth that can't remember your name
But I bet them Polaroids'll send her down memory lane
You know that one auntie, you don't mean to be rude
But every holiday nobody eating her food
And you don't wanna stay there cause them your worst cousins
Got roaches at their crib like them your first cousins
Act like you ain't took a bath with your cousins
Fit 3 in the bed while 6 of y'all
I'm talkin' 'bout three by the head and three by the leg
But you ain't have to tell my girl I used to pee in the bed
[Interlude: Choir]
Rain, rain, rain go away
Let the sun come out and all the children say
Rain, rain, rain go away
Let the sun come out and all the children say
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I woke up early this morning with a new state of mind
A creative way to rhyme without using knives and guns
Keep your nose out the sky, keep your heart to God
And keep your face to the risin' sun
All my niggas from the Chi, that's my family, dog
And my niggas ain't my guys, they my family, dog
I feel like one day you'll understand me, dog
You can still love your man and be manly, dog
You ain't got to get heated at every house warmin'
Sittin' here, grillin' people like George Foreman
Why Uncle Ray and Aunt Shiela always performin'?
The second she storm out then he storm in
Y'all gon' sit down, have a good time this reunion
And drink some wine like Communion
And act like everything fine and if it isn't
We ain't letting everybody in our family business
[Outro]
CLK Mercedes Benz
A whole lotta money
Mommy and daddy will you please stop fighting?
Let's get Stevie outta jail


How y'all feelin' tonight? Thank y'all for coming out to this impromptu type important performance, let me just say that right quick. I love the energy in this city - this is one of my all-time towns y'all know I stay out here. 
But I came here for the creativity more than anything, because creativity fuels everything
I hate business people. People get on the phone with me and tell me ya know like, 'What kind of business can you do, though? What type of business are you doing? What's the numbers? How much did you sell? What's the radio spins? How much shampoo can you sell with your face on it and shit?
Remind me again why we in this shit
Can you remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again why we in this shit (3x)
I know it's for more than to just get rich
Since when was making music about getting rich?
Since when was making art about getting rich?
And I know it's easy for me to say cause
Having money's not anything and not having it is
Remind me again why we in this shit
Remind me again why the Grammys couldn't suck my dick
Remind me again who's the original Superfly -
And 
I got love for Hov but I ain't fuckin' with that "Suit and Tie.
"
Remind me again
Remind me again why we in this shit -
Every nigga tryin' get rich
Every rapper tryin' get rich
And every rapper rap about fuckin' somebody else... bitch
Remind me why we in this shit -
And why the Grammys can suck my dick, suck my big, black dick
And every motherfuckin' sponsor, shit
They try to put their logos all over the concerts and shit
For a meet-and-greet, and you gotta meet the execs and their daughter
And they'll show you what they just bought her
Remind again why we in this shit -
Real niggas don't live too long in this shit. (x5)
They say either you comin' on too strong in this shit -
They always talkin' 'bout what I'm doing wrong in this shit
Well I COULD GIVE A FUCK ABOUT ANYTHING, DICK
I COULD GIVE A FUCK ABOUT ANYTHING DICK!
Remind me why we in this shit -
I lost my motherfuckin' mama
So I could give a fuck about your comments
I promise
Cause we all gonna die one day
BUT I'MMA LIVE MY LIFE MY WAY!
Remind me why we in this shit? Please? can I sell a drink for you please?
So you can help me put on a better show, Please? Corporations?
Can you please support me? 
I swear I'm a nice nigga now. I swear I'll put the pink polo back on. I swear to you. Please. Just for three million dollars.
 
I need it so bad. I need a new pool in my back yard.
 
So I tell all my fans that your shit is cool. And if they believe in me they should also believe in you. Did you get the check yet? I have to call a business manager - did the corporations send the check yet? What's my public rating right now? Are people liking me again? Enough to get money from the corporations - is it OK now?
 
They forgot about the whole Beyonce thing right?
 Okay cool. Is it OK now?
Remind me why we in this shit -
Nigga I'mma make my music from my heart, and I live and I die by
Everything that I say and everything that I do
And everything that I make is what I believe to be true
And if that shit don't make sense and sound like nonsense
I don't give a fuck - cause that was my stream of conscience
And that's the way I felt at that time
And 
feelings was the only facts
And 
Racism and materialism is killing blacks
And one more thing, if I can ask -
One more thing if I can ask -
Cause in this life our life just moves too fast
And time is something you will never get back
What's your quality of life?
What's your quality of life?
And that's why I mean it when I say I hope you have a good time tonight
I hope you have a good time tonight...
LONDON! 
It's Louise Wilson's birthday tonight
 - an inspiration, 
not the lead instrument I'm the lead instrument
. Happy birthday to Louise who taught 
Alexander McQueen
... 
and Kanye West, even though she doesn't want me to put that on my resume.
 
But I just feel sometimes like there is no good ideas and no real ideas and nothing sincere left. And everything's been so homogenized. And it's all Big Business, and there's no creativity.
 When really we have the ability to have a union Utopia if we just help each other, if we just use our resources and stop trying to compete against each other and
Beat each other and
Eat each other
And maybe come together and try to teach each other and
Reach each other and
Maybe try to come together and love each other
Love each other and
Love one another, man
The way you love your mother, man
The way you should love her, man
Y'already understand
Cause this is our shit
And this is our clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my motherfuckin' clique
I said ain't nobody fresher than MY MOTHERFUCKIN' CLIQUE!


[Verse 1]
I'm more than just an option
Refuse to be forgotten
I took a chance with my heart
And I feel it taking over
[Hook]
I better find your loving, I better find your heart
I bet if I give all my love then nothing's gonna tear us apart
[Verse 2]
I'm more than just a number
I doubt you'll find another
So every single summer
I'll be the one that you'll remember
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
It's more than just a mission
You hear, but you don't listen
You better pay attention
And get what you've been missing
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Too many times I've been wrong
I guess being right takes too long
I'm done waiting, there's nothing left to do
But give all I have to you and
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West and Eric Hudson]
Flashing ...lights x4
[Verse 1]
She don't believe in shooting stars
But she believe in shoes and cars
Wood floors in the new apartment
Couture from the store's departments
You more like "love to start shit"
I'm more of the trips to Florida
Ordered the hors d'oeuvres, views of the water
Straight from a page of your favorite author
And the weather so breezy
Man, why can't life always be this easy?
She in the mirror dancing so sleazy
I get a call like, "Where are you Yeezy?"
And try to hit you with the ol-wu-wopte
'til I got flashed by the paparazzi
Damn, these niggas got me
I hate these niggas more than a Nazi
[Hook: Dwele]
As I recall I know you love to show off
But I never thought that you would take it this far
What do I know?
 
(Flashing lights)
[Verse 2]
I know it's been a while sweetheart
We hardly talk, I was doing my thang
I know it was foul, baby
Aye babe, lately, you've been all on my brain
And if somebody woulda told me a month ago
Fronting though: yo, I wouldn't wanna know
If somebody woulda told me a year ago
It'll go get this difficult
Feeling like Katrina with no F.E.M.A
Like Martin with no Gina
Like a flight with no visa
First class with the seat back, I still see ya
In my past, you on the other side of the glass
Of my memory's museum
I'm just saying, hey Mona Lisa come home
You know you can't roam without Caesar
[Hook x2]


Let’s go, let’s go, let’s
[Verse 1]
She don't believe in shooting stars
But she believe in shoes and cars
Wood floors in the new apartment
Couture from the store's department
You more like "love to start shit"
I'm more of the trips to Florida
Ordered the hors d'oeuvres, views of the water
Straight from a page of your favorite author
And the weather so breezy
Man, why can't life always be this easy?
She in the mirror dancing so sleazy
I get a call like, "Where are you Yeezy?"
And try to hit you with the ol-wu-wopte
'til I got flashed by the paparazzi
Damn, these niggas got me
I hate these niggas more than a Nazi
[Hook]
As I recall I know you love to show off
But I never thought that you would take it this far
What do I know? (Flashing lights)
[Verse 2]
I know it's been a while sweetheart
We hardly talk, I was doing my thang
I know it was foul, baby
Aye babe, lately, you've been all on my brain
And if somebody woulda told me a month ago
Fronting though: yo, I wouldn't wanna know
If somebody woulda told me a year ago
It'll go get this difficult
Feeling like Katrina with no F.E.M.A
Like Martin with no Gina
Like a flight with no visa
First class with the seat back, I still see ya
In my past, you on the other side of the glass
Of my memory's museum
I'm just saying, hey Mona Lisa come home
You know you can't roam without Caesar
[Hook x2]
You know, I’m ‘sposed to talk about what some of these songs mean
And some of the stuff is so personal to me
And some of the things I’ve been through is so real
In the form that I’m ‘sposed to break down certain things
And this is one of the first times, because I feel like I’m placed in front of the audience right now
And uhm, certain things are just hard for me to talk about
And I’m sorry VH1 for that
But it uhm, certain things are too serious
And I stand before you, just a human being trying to improve under the microscope
Just the star of the Truman show
As every day I take as calculated
Every time I put on my shoes
Under the flashing lights
Just got an email today
A new book coming out
Doctor Adams: the Truth about Donda West
What the media doesn’t want you to know
And you know, now that my momma passed
Would she really want me to put myself in a situation where I go to jail?
FOR KILLING ‘EM
Under the flashing lights
And the public perception
Where I feel like I’m always in defense of myself
And I realize that I’ve made some mistakes, but I grow from them
It’s like I’m fighting to be me, but I have to leave the fight
‘Cause it helps everyone else be who they wanna be
That’s a story for your ass…


[Verse 1: Lil' Wayne]
You can see me on the east side of New Orleans with a red bitch
Fuck the world, make it walk with a leg twitch
Flow retarded, I'm on on some Special Ed shit
The magnificent, twist it like a dred bitch
And I can get up in a car and drive
And if your record is a smash I can still survive
Yea, money ain't a thing, but everything to me
Shit, I gotta make the C notes sing to me
Yeah, higher than all of the angels be
No I never choke but I strangle beats
And I am just a player in this game we be
So go blame the referee, don't complain to me
And I used to have a Cutlass on stainless feet
Passin' all day up in Latoya street
Back when Scarface used to sing to me
Have me feelin' like a G was the thing to be
Back when I was pedaling my ten-speed bike
Who knew I be peddling a six-speed white
Big dog through the yard where the little dog's bite
So if you are a female dog you don't fight
Bitch ass nigga I ain't got no master
Rich ass nigga I got all my masters
Bitch ass nigga I ain't got no master
Rich ass nigga
[Hook]
As I recall you know I love to show off
But you never thought that I would take it this far
What do you know?
(Flashin' lights)
What do you know
(Flashin' lights)
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Got flows till the beat run out
I told you motherfuckas before we in the house
And we standin' on the couch
With my drink and my two-step
With my drink and my two-step
Three glasses in a row, you'd start to think I was Q-Tip
Bartender pour a round I took a few sips
Tumblin', fallin' down I ain't drunk that's my new step
Now why would I listen to bullshit they shovel
When they taste level ain't at my waist level
I'm fly get on a plane, jet-lagged already
I'm tired
The Goyard bags is heavy
I'm fire, the flow hard as a Chevy
I told her me likey, 
she said she like me, haa
But when she see me with a C.L. like Pete Rock
She just wanna grab the microphone and beat box
Even in high school I was always a special kid
First pack of condoms I asked for extra big
Now I got a flow that sit me right next to B.I.G
And all these old rappers don't know where the exit is
But but but, no buts nigga, what nigga
You're fired motherfucker, Donald trump nigga
I'm killin' these niggas can't fuck nigga
Now let's drink to that 'til we drunk
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
I got these niggas breezy, don't worry about it
Let that bitch breathe
I used to give a fuck, now I give a fuck less
What do I think of success?... it sucks, too much stress
I guess I blew up quick
Cause friends I grew up with
See me as a Premie but I'm not and my nuts big
I don't know what the fuss is, my career is illustrious
My rep is impeccable; I'm not to be fucked with
Shit, is this what success is all about?
A bunch of niggas acting like bitches with big mouths
All this stress, all I got is this big house
Couple of cars, I don't bring half of them shits out
All of this Ace of Spades I drink just to piss out
I mean I like the taste could've saved myself 6 thou's
How many times can I go to Mr. Chow's, Tao's, Nobu
Hold up, lemme move my bowels
I'll shit on y'all niggas, OG tell these boys
(Ya'll ain't got shit on my nigga)
I'm way too important to be talking about extorting
Asking me for a portion is like asking for a coffin
Broad daylight I'll off your on switch
You're not too bright, goodnight long kiss
Bye bye my reply... BLAH, BLAH
Blast burner then pass burner to Ty-Ty
Finish my breakfast, why?
I got an appetite for destruction and you're a small fry
I got watches I ain't seen in months
Apartment at the Trump; I only slept in once
Niggas said Hova was over, such dummies
Even If I fell I'll land on a bunch of money
Ya'll ain't got nothing for me
Let that bitch breathe
[Hook]


Let me get my theme music (x2)
'Aye, Let me get my theme music (x2)
[Hook: T-Pain] + (Kanye West)
Baby, just forget everything that you know
Let's take it all the way back to hello
They say you livin' like you died before
I got a place that only I can go
Let me take you to flight school
(We'll learn to fly)
Let me take you to flight school
(Above all the lights)
You've never been so high, kiss the ground goodbye
And you say, damn baby how did you get that fly?
Flight school
[Verse One: GLC]
I got the airplane passes, the aviator glasses
She be lookin fly like aviator classes
So classy, Jacqueline Onassis
Used to sneak and move like Ali, Cassius
Massive, like Kennedy's assassin
We was killin' time like clocks in the casket
Perhaps its time to prevail
I'll show you Gotham City like I'm Christian Bale
I can be Barack and let you be Michelle
Miguel
Gizelle
Dress fresh as hell
Louis
Gucci
Ye in that pastel
Adore Dior, ride down Lake Shore
She felt the vibe, I had to make sure
She felt deprived livin like she died
Slide with a G, now she felt revived
In town for the night, she's somebody wifey
The Air Yeez
, she never seen these
So the moment I might seize
I done come up out the coma of livin life's dreams
When you wake up in the morning you join the flight team
[Hook]
[Verse Two: Kanye West]
I got my superman power, my superman cape
These the last hours, but superman late
The clock is ticking, damn can you wait?
Man, will he come back and save the day?
Fly across the earth, put things in reverse
I wish this life was a movie I could just rehearse
Certain things I can't doctor, and you say I'm the worst
I ain't have enough patients, but I needed a nurse
That'll come by my bed late
See if my head ache
Then get my head straight
Then give my head, great
Every time I popped up like the VCR
I took your breath away
Then we performed CPR
With all the cars, the clothes, the lights, the boats
I guess I was just trying to sow my royal oates
In the penthouse position
With penthouse bitches
See I Pimp'd My crib, so I must exhibit [Xzibit]
Shit, these last years been a haze [Hayes] like Issac
So I close my eyes
Tighter than Asian eyes get
Realized I got the same wings angels fly
With Louie Vutton feathers, now that some fly shit
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook]
Damn, here we go again
Common passed on this beat, I made it to a jam
Now everything I'm not, made me everything I am
Damn, 
here we go again
People talking shit, but when shit hit the fan
Everything I'm not, made me everything I am
[Verse 1]
I'll never be picture perfect Beyoncé
Be light as Al B.,
 
or black as Chaun-cey
Remember him from Blackstreet, he was as black as the street was
I never be as laid back as this beat was
I never could see why people reach a
Fake ass facade that they couldn't keep up
You see how I creeped up
You see how I played the big role in "Chicago" like Queen Latifah
I never rock a mink coat in the winter like Killa Cam
Or rock some mink boots in the summer time like Will.I.Am
Let me know if you feel it man
C
ause everythin
g I'm not made me everything I am
[Hook] (DJ Premier scratching in background)
Damn, here we go again
Everybody saying what's not for him
But everything I'm not, made me everything I am
Damn, here we go again
People talking shit, but when shit hit the fan
Everything I'm not, made me everything I am
[Verse 2]
And I'm back to tear it up
Haters start your engines, I hear 'em gearing up
People talk so much shit about me at barbershops
They forget to get their hair cut
Okay, fair enough, the streets is flaring up
Cause they want gun-talk,
 
or I don't wear enough
Baggy clothes, Reebok's, or A-di-dos
Can I add that he do spaz out at his shows
So say goodbye to the NAACP award
Goodbye to the In-di-a Arie award
They'd rather give me the ni-nigga-please award
But I'll just take the I-got-alotta-cheese award
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I know that people wouldn't usually rap this
But I got the facts to back this
Just last year, Chicago had over 600 caskets
Man, killing's some wack shit
Oh, I forgot, 'cept for when niggas is rapping
Do you know what it feel like when people is passing
He got changed over his chains,
 
a block off Ashland
I need to talk to somebody, pastor
The church want tithe, so I can't afford to pay
Pink slip on my door, cause I can't afford to stay
My fifteen seconds up, but I got more to say
"That's enough Mr. West, please no more today"
[Hook]


[Hook: Drake]
It may not mean nothing to y'all
But understand nothing was done for me
So I don't plan on stopping at all
I want this shit forever, man
I'm shutting shit down in the mall
And telling every girl she the one for me
And I ain't even planning to call
I want this shit forever, man
[Verse 1: Drake]
Last name Ever, first name Greatest
Like a sprained ankle, boy I ain't nothing to play with
Started off local but thanks to all the haters
I know G-IV pilots on a first name basis
In your city faded off the brown, Nino
She insist she got more class, we know
Swimming in the money, come and find me, Nemo
If I was at the club you know I balled, chemo
Dropped the mixtape, that shit sounded like an album
Who'd a thought a countrywide tour be the outcome
Labels want my name beside a X like Malcolm
Everybody got a deal, I did it without one
Yeah, nigga I'm about my business
Killing all these rappers, you would swear I had a hit list
Everyone who doubted me is asking for forgiveness
If you ain't been a part of it, at least you got to witness, bitches
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Ever-ever, Mr. West is in the building
Ain't no question who about to kill 'em
I used to have hood dreams, big fame, big chains
I stuck my dick inside this life until that bitch came
And went hard, all fall like the ball teams
Just so I can make it rain all spring
Y'all seen my story, my glory
I had raped the game young, you can call it statutory
When a nigga blow up they gonna build statues for me
Old money, Benjamin Button
 
"What?" nothin'
Now super bad chicks giving me McLovin
You would think I ran the world like
 
Michelle's husband
You would think these niggas know me when they really doesn't
Like they was down with the old me
No you fucking wasn't
Um, you're such a fucking loser
He ain't even go to class, Bueller
Trade the Grammy plaques just to have my Granny back
Remember she had that bad hip like a fanny pack
Chasing the stardom will turn you to a maniac
All the way in Hollywood and I can't even act
They pull the cameras out and goddamn, he snap
I used to want this thing forever, y'all can have it back
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Lil Wayne]
Okay, hello it's the Martian, Space Jam Jordans
I want this shit forever,
 
wake up and smell the garden
Fresher than the harvest, step up to the target
If I had one guess then I guess I'm just New Orleans
And I will never stop like I'm running from the cops
Hop up in my car and told my chauffeur to the top
Life is such a fucking roller coaster then it drops
But what should I scream for
This is my theme park
My mind shine even when my thoughts seem dark
Pistol on my side,
 
you don't wanna hear that thing talk
Let the king talk, check the price and pay attention
Lil' Wayne, that's what they gotta say or mention
I'm like Nevada in the middle of the summer
I'm resting in the lead, I need a pillow and a cover
Shhh, my foot's sleeping on the gas
No brake pads, no such thing as last uh
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Eminem]
There they go, packin' stadiums
 
as Shady spits his flow
Nuts they go, Macadamia they go so ballistic, whoa
He can make them look like bozos
He's wondering if he should spit this slow, fuck no
Go for broke,
 
his cup just runneth over, oh no
He ain't had him a buzz like this
Since the last time that he overdosed
They been waiting patiently for Pinocchio to poke his nose
Back into the game and they know
Rap will never be same as before
Bashing in the brains of these hoes
 
And establishing the name as he goes
The passion in the flame is ignited
You can't put it out once we light it
This shit is exactly what the fuck
That I'm talking about when we riot
You dealing with a few true villains
Who stand inside of a booth, truth spilling
And spit true feelings until our tooth fillings
Come flying up outta of our mouths,
 
now rewind it
Pay back mothafucka for the way that you got at me
How's it taste?
When I slap the taste outta your mouth
With the bass so loud that it shakes the place
I'm Hannibal Lecter, so just in case you're thinking of saving face
You ain't gonna have no face to save
By the time I'm through with this place, so Drake
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Verse 1: Common]
Victory won, in a world of Henessey and guns
Too young for the marches but I remember these drums
The stark reality of wars and battles
We fought for ours, caught in ghetto tragedy
I talk to my aunt named Mattie Lee
And recognize the importance of family
Hand me a joint, good music, and room to breathe
Those that doubt Com' will soon believe
Can't judge the weave, my lady had one
I'm more like a fool for soul and passion
The price of gas rises, street life is pumpin' fast, lives is
I watched Crash and realize that we all survivors
No religion or race could ever describe us
My guys do dirt, move dirt, but never really talk about it
Forever begins just because I thought about it
[Hook: Bilal] x4
Living once again
We live
Then you're gone
[Verse 2: Common]
Ashes and snowfalls
I wonder when the roll call for heaven gon' come
Forever gon' come
It's a cold world and I can never go numb
Look fear in the eyes, say I never gon' run
Sooner then later, I know the cheddar gon' come
For now I write the world letters to better the young
On tree by jury, together we hung
Now we let our chains hang
 
and gang bang to maintain
'Ghanistan goin' through the same thing
It trickles down, at each other we aim pain
I shoot for stars, peace and exclusive cars
Through the ride I learned to earn hard
Watch gangstas turn God in the midst of war
No matter how much I elevate, I kiss the floor
It was in the wind when she said Dilla was gone
That's when I knew we'd live forever through song
[Hook x2]
[Outro: Pops]
Origin is forever
Well, well well
Here we are back in the studio again
Look at that
Hey I don' need no cue cards
They got the engineers holdin up the cue cards
What that say?
Oh they say, just talk, don't sing
Son, I bet you feel like you and I've been here forever
30 years old red eyes, beholding red eyes
I see my world's tears
Yeah, origin is forever
Every peak will have 2 valleys
Hopeful eyes in the comfort
Of true protection and admiration of a child
That's forever
Forever is to strive
A place of endearment
Forever is what I leave
My I-self contribution
Damn, what I'm gon' leave?
Ok...
I'll leave my one and only grain of spiritual sand
To universal scales of humanity, all humanity
Forever is finding a solution to a solution
Tsunamis, hurricanes
Following the trails of the African slave ships
War, war, and more war
Floods, 
Columbine
, global warming, earthquakes
Another somebody done me wrong, son
Virginia Tech,
 is not an, "Oh, what the heck?"
We're still, did you place your one grain
Of spiritual sand forever?
Confusion need a solution
Blend and stir, stir and blend
The pot of humanity; sift the ingredients
Of acknowledgment, apology, amendment, atonement
We gonna work with the four A's here
Forever Pops
Common good is forever...
God's memory is forever...


[Hook: Drake]
It may not mean nothing to y'all
But understand nothing was done for me
So I don't plan on stopping at all
I want this shit forever man
I'm shutting shit down in the mall
And telling every girl she the one for me
And I ain't even planning to call
I want this shit forever man
[Verse 1: Drake]
Last name Ever, first name Greatest
Like a sprained ankle, boy, I ain't nothing to play with
Started off local but thanks to all the haters
I know G-IV pilots on a first name basis
In your city faded off the brown, Nino
She insist she got more class, we know
Swimming in the money, come and find me: Nemo
If I was at the club you know I balled, chemo
Dropped the mixtape, that shit sounded like an album
Who'd a thought a country wide tour be the outcome
Labels want my name beside a X like Malcolm
Everybody gotta deal, I did it without one
Yeah, nigga I'm about my business
Killing all these rappers, you would swear I had a hit list
Everyone who doubted me is asking for forgiveness
If you ain't been a part of it, at least you got to witness, bitches
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Ever-ever, Mr. West is in the building
Ain't no question who about to kill 'em
I used to have hood dreams, big fame, big chains
I stuck my dick inside this life until that bitch came
And went hard, all fall like the ball teams
Just so I can make it rain all spring
Y'all seen my story, my glory
I had raped the game young, you can call it statutory
When a nigga blow up they gonna build statues for me
Old money, Benjamin Button (what?) nothin' man
Now super bad chicks givin' me McLovin'
You would think I ran the world like Michelle's husband
You would think these niggas know me when they really doesn't
Like they was down with the old me, no you fuckin' wasn't
Um, you're such a fuckin' loser
He ain't even go to class, Bueller
Trade the Grammy plaques, just to have my granny back
Remember she had that bad hip like a fanny pack
Chasing the stardom will turn you to a maniac
All the way in Hollywood and I can't even act
They pull the cameras out, and goddamn, he snap
I used to want this thing forever, y'all can have it back
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Lil Wayne]
Okay, hello it's the Martian, Space Jam Jordans
I want this shit forever, wake up and smell the garden
Fresher than the harvest, step up to the target
If I had one guess then I guess I'm just New Orleans
And I will never stop like I'm runnin' from the cops
Hop up in my car and told my chauffeur "to the top"
Life is such a fucking roller coaster then it drops
But what should I scream for? This is my theme park
My mind shine even when my thoughts seem dark
Pistol on my side, you don't wanna hear that thing talk
Let the king talk, check the price and pay attention
Lil Wayne, that's what they gotta say or mention
I'm like Nevada in the middle of the summer
I'm resting in the lead, I need a pillow and a cover
Shhh, my foot's sleeping on the gas
No brake pads, no such thing as last, uh
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Eminem]
There they go, packing stadiums as Shady spits his flow
Nuts they go, Macadamia, they go so ballistic, whoa
He can make them look like bozos, he's wondering if he should spit this slow
Fuck no! Go for broke, this cup just runneth over, oh no
He ain't had him a buzz like this since the last time that he overdosed
They been waiting patiently for Pinocchio to poke his nose
Back into the game and they know, rap will never be same as before
Bashing in the brains of these hoes and establishing the name as he goes
The passion in the flame is ignited, you can't put it out once we light it
This shit is exactly what the fuck that I'm talking about when we riot
You dealing with a few true villains who stand inside of a booth, truth spilling
And spit true feelings until our tooth fillings come flyin' up outta of our mouths
Now rewind it
Pay back mothafucka for the way that you doubted me, how's it taste?
When I slap the taste outta your mouth
With the bass so loud that it shakes the place
I'm Hannibal Lecter, so just in case you're thinking of saving face
You ain't gonna have no face to save by the time I'm through with this place
So Drake
[Hook]


[Hook] (B.o.B)
Well, I'm a make a lot of money
(Make a lot of money)
And I'm-and I'm gonna quit this, quit this
(Quit this)
Crazy scene
[B.o.B]
Well I'm a quit this crazy scene
Cause being famous ain't all what they make it to be
But back then y'all this was my favorite dream
But now, I wouldn't hesitate I would leave
Cause I'mma
[Hook]
[Asher Roth]
I'm a quit this crazy scene
Cause everything you see ain't really how it be
Please don't believe in that TV screen
I'm sorry kids but there's no such thing
I'm gonna
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Well I'm gonna quit this crazy scene
It's funny
Cause this is what I waited to be
Bein' on stage was amazin' to me
But now I'm in the game, it ain't the way that it seems
I'mma
[Hook]
[Asher Roth]
And I don't know how to feel
When this
Dream of mine used to be so real
I would anything just to sign a deal
But now I trade it all for a home cooked meal
I wanna
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Oh, what?
You say it could be worse?
Well step in my shoes, put yourself in my shirt
I'm only human y'all so we all gotta work
But sometimes I wonder why I even came to this earth
I'mma
[Hook]
[Asher]
Look
Cause they don't care about us
They just use us up
Leave us in the dust
And it roughs me up
So much I could cuss
But
Enough's enough
I want out of these cuffs
I'm gonna
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Sometimes I just feel hopeless
Pacin' back and forth, man I can't even focus
So I'm always smokin' in the booth recordin'
Cause my mind races
Like Jeff Gordon
I'mma
[Hook]
[Asher]
It ain't supposed to be so hard
I always said I'd quit if it felt like a job
I'd rather be pissed than pretend that I'm not
And try to play along with the whole facade
I wanna
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
It ain't a question to me
Look at me
I know what I'm destined to be
This is spiritual y'all
I'm wrestlin' beasts
But pretty soon
I'll be restin' in peace
I'mma
[Hook]
[Asher]
And I don't even wanna be famous
And all my close friends become complete strangers
Don't try to tell me this is one of these stages
Man you don't know me, you only know what my name is
I'mma
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
But still it just ain't enough
Cause the rest of the world still just wakin' up
So all the real niggas can relate to this stuff
But those who asleep, still hatin' on us
Cause I'mma
[Hook]
[Asher]
It couldn't be more fake
When they wine and they dine and they smile and wave
But when it comes time to decide your fate
They'll sign you on the line right next to Satan
I'mma
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Come y'all, y'all actin' like I can't feel you
I can look in your eyes and tell you what you done been through
And I could give a fuck because I got bigger issues
So at this point in my life
How can I get through?
[Hook]
[Asher]
Okay
Yeah, I'll play yo game
I'm in
I'll dance, I'll rap, I'll sing
And use it as a chance to provide some change
Just know I'll walk away at the end of the day
Right when I
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Look
This is my stress reliever
But somehow, it became my stress for demons
So I get up in this booth and I'm heated
Like 'Ye said
I'm turnin' atheists into believers
I'm
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Look
A lot of haters attack but
It's my job to speak the truth on the track
So say what you like, you just givin' me gas
So by now, I got enough to drive to Venus and back
So I'mma
[Hook]
[B.o.B]
Fuck the money I'm leavin'
I'm goin' back home after I break even
I said what I said so as long as I'm speakin'
B.o.B got the upper hand as long as I'm breathin'
[Hook]
Well I guess I got problems
Dropped outta school ain't think about college
So apologies to my mother and father
For being stubborn ever since I was a toddler
[Hook]
Well I'm a quit this crazy dream
Cause when I hit the stage all the ladies scream
And when I pass by they all waving at me
But I be getting tired, y'all pray for me
[Hook]


Funk Flex
Yeah, G-Unit
You understand whats about to happen?
Huh .. huh? (do you understand?)
[Hook]
Nigga guess who's bizzack
It's not Beanie Sieg' or Jay-Hov'
50 Cent y'all niggas should know
Don't make me relapse
Run up on your ass with the fo'
You punk nigga I done told you before
[Verse]
Fuck being in a cage, man that shits for the birds
I do my dirt in the hood, but I live in the burbs
When you talk be careful how you choose your words
Cause I send niggas to put ya fuckin brains on the curb
Am I my brother's keeper? Yes I am
Nigga you know they gettin low you see that gun in my hand
G-Unit, don't go fuckin with my soldiers, boy
Get laid out, im'a say I told you boy
See you rollin with 20 niggas, we rolling with 20 guns
16 hollows is loaded in every one
I know you slow, so
I do the math thats 320 shells flyin at your ass (ha)
You spend a lot of time talkin about how you ball out
When u get hit you gonna run and bleed till u fall down
I guess you didn't think we was down to go all out
One second, you was wrong
You ain't on the shit we on
My money getting long
Now my team getting strong
I'm gone
Gone
[Hook]
[Outro]
50 Cent
And I'm back to act up so strap up
Funk Flex
Kingpin style
Ya heard me
C'mon, c'mon
Make me cut something
Make me bust something
C'mon, c'mon
I want you to
C'mon


[Beanie Sigel]
(Yo) Who wanna fuck wit', the fat boy of the Roc?
(blldddttt) stick em, ha, another victim
Mac pullin' capers again
Fuck with that money paper then
Light as a rock, gonna light up the block
Don't believe in cases, goin all out
Paintin' faces, switch my picture, like tradin' places
For that money what?
Everybody hands up, or hands down money tucked
I flip the money trucks, money I don't give a fuck
Ay money, shut the fuck up
It's only a stickup
You don't stand a chance, give it quick up
You 'bout to turn into an ambulance pickup
Enough with the cocky stuff, fuck all that stocky stuff
Don't get smacked like a hockey puck
I ain't wit' that rocky stuff
I'm strapped got this gat (Blah blah blah blah)
What?
[Hook: Kurupt and Beanie 2x]
Gangsta gangsta, tell me how you do it
It seems so simple, like there was nothing to it
One more time run through it, everybody hands up
Alright hands down money tucked
[Beanie Sigel]
I'm on fire like a molotov cocktail
I'm high off them cocktails
Dangerous gone broke, my aim is no joke
Duct taped, roped, strangle your folks
Box cut across the throat (nope)
Bang the four 'till it's broke
Prey on niggas in a circlular pattern
Catch you playin' craps, car in reverse
I'm circlin' back
Man I stay up in them dice games, fuck a ice chain
A Ice ring, I'm tryin' to come up on some nice change
Incase a nigga might swing, they gets a might thang
Pull out the right thang, show em it's a spike thang
Make you do the right thing, like a Spike Lee joint
Bang that pussy and his right knee joint
You get the sergeant and cap couldn't tell mack (freeze)
I'm like a rat dodgin' traps when it come to the cheeze
Backwards wrapped my trough
Won't hesitate to clap ya folks
I'm on tilt like a rapid (?)
[Hook 2x]
[Beanie Sigel]
Back now nigga, all black down nigga
Mack now, loaded up wit' black towns nigga
Frontline, clap down, backround niggas
One nine clap crowns, and smack down niggas
Keep rope to hogtie you pork ass niggas
Stuffin' the boot to shoot hoops you sports ass nigga
Wouldn't shoot a game of pool
8-ball in the corner pocket, stop it
You niggas flippin' Guess jeans profit
Disrespectin' eskell, expectin' to sell
You got seeds in ya weed, disrespectin' the L
Don't got 20's on ya wheels disrespectin' the car
You burnin rubber and that squad, disrespectin the tar
You niggas wore ass backwards, 'vessinal gat
Same thing with your hustle, rustled and packed
The ball back on missions
Drop the east the mack more vicious
Back to snatch or crack off dishes
[Hook 2x]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
We sell, crack to our own out the back of our homes
We smell the musk of the dusk in the crack of the dawn
We go through episodes too,
 
like Attack of the Clones
Work til we break our back and you hear the crack of the bone
To get by, just to get by
Just to get by, just to get by
We commute to computers
Spirits stay mute while you egos spread rumors
We survivalists, turned to consumers
Just to get by, just to get by
Just to get by, just to get by
Ask Him why some people got to live in a trailer, cuss like a sailor
I paint a picture with the pen like Norman Mailer
Mi Abuela raised three daughters all by herself with no help
I think about her struggle and I find the strength in myself
These words, melt in my mouth
They hot, like the jail cell in the South
Before my nigga CORE bailed me out
To get by, just to get by
Just to get by, just to get by
We do or die like Bed-Stuy through the red sky
With the window of the red eye
Let the lead fly, some G. Rap shit, Living to Let Die
[Hook]
This morning, I woke up
Feeling brand new, I jumped up
Feeling my highs and my lows
In my soul and my goals
Just to stop smoking and stop drinking
I've been thinking, I've got my reasons
Just to get by, just to get by
Just to get by, just to get by
[Verse 2]
We keeping it gangster say fo shizzle, fo sheezy and staying crunk
It's easy to pull a breezy
Smoke trees and we stay drunk
Yo, I activism - attacking the system
The Blacks and Latins in prison
Numbers have risen, they're victims; lacking the vision
Shit and all they got is rapping to listen to
I let them know we missing you, the love is unconditional
Even when the condition is critical, when the living is miserable
Your position is pivotal
I ain't bullshitting you
Now, why would I lie
Just to get by
Just to get by, we get fly
The TV got us reaching for stars
Not the ones between Venus and Mars
The ones that be reading for parts
Some people get breast enhancements and penis enlargers
Saturday sinners, Sunday morning at the feet of the Father
They need something to rely on
We get high on all types of drug
When, all you really need is love
To get by, just to get by
Just to get by, just to get by
Our parents sing like John Lennon
Imagine all the people watch
We rock like Paul McCartney
From now until the last Beattle drop
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Yoyoyo, yo
Some people cry, and some people try
Just to get by, for a piece of the pie
You love to eat and get high
We deceive when we lie, and we keeping it fly
When, the people decide, to keep a disguise
Can't see they eyes, see the evil inside
But there's people you find
Strong or feeble in mind, I stay reading the signs


[Mos Def]
History
It's happenin' every day y'all (right now)
Everyday (right now)
Right now (
good mornin', Vietnam
!)
Listen
Brooklyn wins again
It's the Stuy, it's the Bush
, 
dem 
niggas again
Ta' Kweli, Mighty Def
, and 
S. Dot
 on the guest lock
Kanye, you're the dope man in hip hop, now let's rock
Now roll out niggas, my hometown niggas
I get it good in your hood so slow down niggas
Watch the speed though, 
mind your pedal and ease off
Or screech into a collision course with these walls - bam!
They don't move, don't pray, don't lose, don't sleep
Life passin', light flasin', life happens that fast part a gun
Black hands up in prayer
Black guns up in fear
Dyin' wish is to touch the air
Seekin' heaven that wasn't here
Eyes will not see another year
It's another day
It's the same fight
Different round, sound the bell
Mix it up in victory where you live it up the beat
And get risen up you're knocked down get it back and get it up
Get off of 
queer street
 and get with us
And get clear where we did it
From the heart, from the people
From the top, from the jeep
From the gut, from the street
From my soul to the mic to the essence
So in my absence you feel the presence, exactly
I make contact, for short, I MC
Me and mine we don't just get by
We get free and that's ready [Mos -- nigga]
[Jay-Z]
Just to get by
Nigga I sold coke, nigga I pushed lah
Carried a fo'five
Claimed I was ready to die
Promised never to cry
Held it all inside
Reality was too much to take so I
Kept my mind fried
Slept for most of mine
Soon as I closed my eyes
Then I woke up behind
Thinkin' either I load up these nines
Or blow up with rhymes
Cause this flow of mine is like blow up but lines of coca
And your folks think Hov' just wrote stuff to rhyme
Nah, I'm a poster for what happened seein your moms
Doin five dollars worth of work just to get a dime
So pardon my disposition
Why should I listen to a system that never listened to me?
Picture me working McDonald's
I'd rather pull a mac on you
Sorry Ms. Jackson but I'm packin
[Kanye West]
It's something about that Nina Simone's piano flow
It's like a Michaelangelo painted a portrait of Maya Angelou
And gave it to a sick poet for they antidote
If music get's you choked up this is the tree and a rope
This is Chi nigga
, I'm mista all-a-dat
Fuck a map, let's put this bitch on the almanac
Dice what they hittin' for
, '
lax what you sittin' on
Tracks who you spittin on, rap till we get it on
And don't let nobody with the power to sign
Ever tell you you ain't got the power to rhyme
They used to tell me toughen up
Put some bass in your voice
They used to tell me lighten up
Put some Mase in your voice
Lord willin' I ain't kill nobody
But I have a feelin' this album
That I'm gonna make a killin'
Or not a shillin'
This is love it or hate it music
But, at least we made it music
And we didn't make it industry
This is gon' be interesting
This'll be the end of me or I'm finna' be an entity
Kanye, Jay-Z, Mos Def, and Kweli
We are not makin' songs no more
We're makin' history
[Background singer]
[Talib Kweli]
Just to get by, just to get by
Just to get by
We keep it gangsta, say 'fo shizzle', 'fo sheezy'
Desensitized by violence on the TV during the war
Killing each other is easy, its pouring liquor for fallen
Niggas believe me it's ghetto libation, see it all before
Me, it's ghetto love, I bet you seen it all befo'
Just to get by, my people we get fly
My people we get high, filling cigars with the lah
Nigga come on, even Jesus was stoned before receivin' the throne
I said to rest in peace to Nina Simone
[Busta Rhymes]
Back in the days we was used to doin the shit
I can't call it all in the streets
We was hustlin fiends that asked for it
I guess I was used to just standin on corners
Waitin for paper bags with bundles of crack
Hopin the week was good so I could get money back
To get by, just to get by, just to get by, just to get by
When I was stressed I possessed a side of my strength
That made me angry and bleed
With the frustration havin me smokin 
Newports and weed
To get by, just to get by, just to get by, just to get by
Those be the times when I try to rely
On my niggas and street motherfuckers
And reach out to wifey and then I place a call on my mother
To get by, just to get by, just to get by, just to get by
(Hey yo mom pick up the phone, I g- I gotta to talk to you ma)
If you was five percent instead of actin stupid and guessin
You had to go and study your lessons
And know your math in the building in session
[Hook: Talib Kweli + background singers]
This morning I woke up
Feelin brand new, I jumped up
Feelin my highs and my lows
In my soul, and my goals
Just to stop smoking and stop drinkin
But I been thinkin I got my reasons
Just to get (by), just to get (by)
Just to get (by), just to get (get buh buh buh bye bye)
[Talib Kweli]
Some people try
Some people try just to get by
For my piece of the pie
You love to eat and be high
We deceive and we lie
And we keepin' it fly - yo yo yo yo yo
People
Keeper of the skies
Can't see your eyes
See the evil inside
The best people you find
Stronger people in mind
I stay readin' the signs


[Kanye West]
I'm trying to catch the beat, uh
I'm trying to catch the beat
I'm trying to catch the beat, uh uh, uh
I'm trying to catch the beat
[Hook: Kanye West]
N-now, th-th-throw your motherfuckin' hands
Get 'em high
All the girls pass the weed to your motherfuckin' man
Get 'em high
Now I ain't never tell you to put down your hands
Get 'em high
And if you're losin' your high then smoke again
Keep 'em high
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
N-n-n-now, my flow
Is in the pocket like wallets,
 
I got the bounce like hydraulics
I can't call it,
 
I got the swerve like alcoholics
My freshman year I was going through hella problems
'Til I, built up the nerve to drop my ass up out of college
My teacher said I'se a loser, I told her why don't you kill me
I give a fuck if you feel me, I'm gonna follow
My heart, and if you follow the charts
Or the plaques or the stacks
You ain't gotta guess who's back, you see
I'm so shy that you thought I was bashful
But this bastard's flow will bash your skull
And I will, cut your girl like Pastor Tro'
And I don't, usually smoke
But pass the
 
'dro
And I won't, give you that money that you asking for
Why you think me and Dame cool? We assholes
That's why we hear your music in fast forward
'Cuz we don't wanna hear that weak shit no mo'
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West + 
(girl)
]
N-n-n-n-n-now who the hell is this
E-mailing me at 11:26?
Telling me that she 36-26, plus double-d
You know how girls on Black Planet be when they get bubbly
At NYU but she hail from Kansas
Right now she just lamping, chilling on campus
Sent me a picture with a feelin' on Candice
Who said her favorite rapper was the late great Francis
W-H-I-T-E
, it's getting late mami
Your screen saver say tweet, so you got to "call me"
And bring a friend for my friend, his name Kweli
(You mean Talib? Lyrics sticks to your rib)
I mean 
(That's my favorite CD that I play at my crib)
I mean (You don't really know him, why is you lyin')
Yo Kwe, she don't believe me, please pick up the line
She gon' think that I'm lyin', just spit a couple of lines
Then maybe I'll be able to give her dick all the time
And get her high
[Verse 3: Talib Kweli]
Yo, I can't believe this nigga use my name for picking up dimes
But never mind,
 
I need some tracks, you tryin' to pull tracks out
And my rhymes is finna blow, 
you trying to blow backs out
Well okay, you twisted my arm, I'll assist with the charm
Ayo, ain't you meet that chick at that conference with your moms?
And sister's the bomb
, 
boy she got the bougie behavior
Always got something to say like a okay playa hater
Anyway, I don't usually fuck with the Internet
Or chicks with birth control stuck to they arm like Nicorette
You really fuckin' that much or trying to get off cigarettes?
If she think it's fly, she ain't met a real nigga yet
Now I apologize if I come off a little inconsiderate
I got the bubba kush and a sister could get a hit of it
[Verse 4: Common]
Get 'em high like noon
 
or the moon
Or a room filled with smoke,
 
a hype filled with dope
Y'all assumed I was doomed, out of tune
But I still filled the notes
 
with real nigga quotes
Real rappers is hard to find, like a remote
Control rap is out of
Used to, but still got love
That's why I abuse you who are not thugs
Rock clubs, it's like Tiger
Woods in the hood, to have my own reality show,
 
called Soul Survivor
I stole on liver, niggas than you
You's a bitch I got ones that are thicker than you
How could I ever let your words affect me
They say Hip-Hop is dead,
 
I'm here to resurrect me
Marsha's too sexy to even make songs like these
That's why the raw don't know your name, like Alicia Keys
Too many featured emcees
, and pro-ducers is popular
Twelve thousand spins, nobody got to coppin' a
Album, how come, you the hot garbage of
The year's clear your image and snooped up
Label got you souped up, tellin' you you sick
When you a dick with a loose nut
Video hard to watch like Medusa
Even your club record need a booster
Chimped up, with a pimp cup, illiterate nigga
Read the infra-red across your head,
 
I'm bred king like Simba
Bolder than Denver,
 
I ain't a Madd Rapper
Just an emcee with a temper
You dancing for money like Honey
, I did this my way
So when the industry crash, I survive like Kanye
Spittin' through wires
 and fires, emcees retirin'
Got your hands up, get them motherfuckers higher then
[Hook]


[Kanye West]
There's only one girl on my agenda
(You talking bout Brenda?)
Naw I'm talking bout Linda, from last September
Now Linda love lace
 
like Linda Lovelace
LaFace
 says she like 
+Mase+
 but she love 
+Face+
And I know that Linda was a hip-hop-head
And I know that Linda gave Hip-Hop head
But I feel I could convert her
Cuz I ain't here to hurt her mayn
And she was messin wit me when I was still at Burger King
She ain't hop in my bed cuz of the whips and cream
Cuz when I had her in bed I had whip cream
Shakespearian midsummer night dream
I unzip things and pull out big things
They was flashin gr-green, she was like "ch-ching"
Got em, but she know a rreeal nigga when she, spot him
So now she's pickin dresses from Vera Wang
Scratchin out her maiden and here's my name
Now I'm sittin at the bar wit all my guys
They sayin "Cheers to you for your future years of pain"
Like "Dog you ready to give all this shit up?
The summer's on its way and these hoes doin sit-ups
And when they see the way the G5 lights lit up
You're gonna wanna have two like John Ritter"
But naww, I bought her a brand new 
BM
He said "Dog, slow down like Brand Nubian now"
[Consequence]
I just feel the need to purge my soul from the work load
Couldn't watch another nigga get burnt slow
She said her man was busy, always bored her with work load
Never takes her out and falls asleep in his work clothes
She needs some excitement, which leads to this indictment
Believe what you like kid, according to her
When we recorded with her, Linda changed her name to Nicky
Sang along to 
Darlin Nicky
, co-star of my quickies
That foot is so pretty,
 but I'm sure you recognize
That bra holds titties, those are her titties
Solar's so pretty, but not to rub it in
But that white Russian did make her lonely like the wind
So the over right that's in, on the over night depends
If you take heed the game, and please keep ya name, word
[Kanye West]
Cuz she's just a playa playa
That's playin games wit me
[John Legend]
I can't see myself getting out the game, no time soon
Ooooh, as I continue as I, Ooooh, as I continue as I
Oooh, Oooh
Can't see myself getting out the game, no time soon
Ooooh, as I continue as I, Ooooh, as I continue as I
Oooh, Oooh


[Jadakiss:] Ah-ha!
[Hook: Kanye West]
Shorty gettin it in with me (uh-huh)
Shorty gettin it in with me (yeah)
She said I brought some friends with me, but I don't know why
Because they ain't gettin in with me (uh-uh)
Shorty gettin it in with me (yeah, yeah)
Shorty gettin it in with me (uh-huh)
She said I brought some friends with me, but I don't know why (yeah)
Because they ain't gettin in with me (yo)
[Verse 1: Jadakiss]
You know me, I'm with a ghetto diva, stiletto fever
Jell-o shots, yellow reefer
Same rules apply, I'm back on top
You can't drink or smoke if you not gon' pop
See me in the popcorn drop, not gon' stop
Takin shots of Catron, gettin top on yachts
The medallion's a mountain, rock on rocks
The whole world wanna know when this lock gon' drop
Without a doubt, she acknowledge the wealth
Since she ain't give brains, I told her let me get some knowledge of self
Then I told her be proud of yourself and dig deep
And try to see what you could get out of yourself
After all that, I told her to fall back
The Ferrari truck parked in the back is all black
Next time, bring some friends and more 'gnac
It depends how I feel in the morn' if I call back, what
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Yeah, Kanye to the, yeah
I'm with this bad Ethiopian chick, drinkin' straight up liquor
I told her I'm Nigerian, a straight up nigga
Now is it just me, or do them ugg's
Have girls feet lookin' like sheepskin rugs
Some rhyme with a name, some rhyme nameless
Don't try to treat me like I ain't famous
My apologies, are you into astrology
Cause I'm, I'm tryin to make it to Uranus
See that's a little Don Juan game
All across your chest like Sean John name
Niggas tryin to figure out since Kan came
Who the rookie of the year, me or LeBron James
They say whoa, don't get caught up in the hype
Ain't no tellin they gon' love you after tonight
Well if tonight's the night, pop bottles, fuck models
Spend money 'til you broke, my nigga live your life!
[Jadakiss:] Ah-ha!
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 3: Jadakiss]
Shorty gettin it in with me, 600 Benz with me
She wanna spend with me, uhh
She see me roll up the bud, then thug out the club
Cause I got my mens with me, uhh
She said she leavin her friends for me
They ain't gettin in with her, cause she gon' bend for me, uhh
Her tongue spin like a rim for me, do what she can for me
Look like a ten for me, uhh
Now shorty is out with me, usin her mouth for me
She lookin out for me, uhh
She said 'Kiss where you live, I said you see the Bridge
When you step on the balcony, let's go
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Jadakiss:] Ah-ha!


[Jin]
Ya like fishsticks(fishdicks)?
[Kanye West]
Yeah
[Jin]
Ya like fishsticks(fishdicks) in your mouth?
[Kanye West]
Yeah!
[Jin]
Then you a gay fish!!!!!
[Kanye West]
I don't get it


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I'm known for running my mouth
I will not be accountable for what comes out, uh
I dunno, I might have said it
I was kinda gone and light-head
And my jacket kinda fresh, bright red
And as usual, my pants tight-threaded
It seem like everybody dress tight now
And I just want my credit
Don't get it, twisted, or dreaded
I am the king and will not be headed
To the morgue no time soon, brethren
Being broke made my head hurt
So I need the bread or an Excedrin
That'll only get my engine revving
While y'all on 10, I'm on 11
I'mma make the news, be on at 7
Matter fact, I'm on this very second
I'm in first and y'all in second
And this verse only add to the freshness
Call to the club, tell them add to the guest list
What you think? Way more bitches?
I can never be too big for my britches
Y'all motherfuckers know who this is
I'm gifted
Merry Christmas
Merry Christmas
[Hook: Lykke Li and Santogold]
I'm armed with pens, I've got my rhymes
Whatever comes, I write it down
So knock me out and shoot me down
With mics in hand, we'll stand against the test of time
[Verse 2: Santigold]
You don't know my mind
Like I've said a thousand times
I gotta stay ahead
Know what I'm fighting for
I'll leave you to your talk
Never seen my kind before
And you're all so thick-headed
Follow and I know I let it
Part of me won't let me quit
Won't let me just not say shit
So much is there to be bored with
Can't be still, I can't afford it
Try to hold it in, but it makes me sick
So I spit it up, say to hell with it
I dream it and I build it tall
Make a way for when you fall
[Hook: Lykke Li and Santogold x3]
I'm armed with pens, I've got my rhymes
Whatever comes, I write it down
So knock me out and shoot me down
With mics in hand, we'll stand against the test of time


[Hook: Musiq Soulchild]
Listen
You may see me in cars and clothes
But all this money can't make me happy
See this life ain't all I know
Sometimes I wish that I could fly away
I guess you suppose
That all this money can make you happy
So I just want you to know
Sometimes I wish that I could fly away
[Verse 1: Fabolous]
Now I would wish you the best
And I would wish you success
But I would never want to wish you my stress
These haters would love to see holes through my tissue and flesh
And I assume if they miss you, you blessed
And the pretty women don't even want to kiss you unless
You in a Mitchell & Ness
Or you push through the best
But when I speak I make sure every issue's addressed
Before they twist you and mess
And try to diss you in press
And most cops want to frisk you I guess
They figure rap stars always move with the pistol and vest
Listen
It ain't easy as it looks with me
Some execs is as greasy as the crooks would be
Some women are as sleezy as the hookers be
And how I'm supposed to do right with with so much wrong around me
Get rid of the weak
And keep the strong around me
Everybody who come along belong around me you know
[Hook]
[Violin Solo: Miri Ben-Ari]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Kanye to the
I ask God to help me fly away
And if not
Then please keep your eye on me
These niggas is bringing out the worst side of me
When you wired me
You inspired me
To become the higher me
These execs
All want the details
How I made the world bounce like
Full messages on e-mails
But they hiding something like she-males
So
We still
Pull up in Sprewells
The ice and me chill
Like Goldmember, I love gold
What's the point to gain the world if you lose your soul
Now
Niggas forcing me to keep the heater
Black strap, white handle, I got jungle fever
I went platinum
And I don't rap guns
My diamonds is whiter than Michael Jackson
Me and Miri make music you can hold in time
So take a second to listen it may blow your mind
[Hook][x2]


[Intro]
I'm not a one girl's guy... (real talk for ya, peep game)
Ain't they know it, when it comes to love, I don't lie (we don't lie man)
And the girls respect me for it (you gotta respect that)
Ain't gonna say my nose can't be open (I may never say never)
But right now it's just too many fine ladies out there to choose one from
(too many ladies, ha)
[Pre-Hook]
I love girls, girls, girls, girls, girls I do adore
Yo put your number on this paper cuz I would love to date ya
Holla at ya when I come off tour
[Verse 1]
Whoo! 
Who you lovin, who you wanna be huggin,
 heh
Who you wit, who you wanna be fuckin
Got this smarty art chick to whom I pose this question
I read a couple books to add to her soul's progression
To put this in laymen's term, I gave her some knowledge
She gave me, brains in return,
 
she had to drop out of college
Knowin she does this homework, I give her in house tutoring
In and out I'm movin through her student body union and
She, call me professor, say daddy come and test her
So she could fail on purpose and repeat the semester
I'm like, at this rate ma you never graduate
She said, I ain't no fool I'll make it up in summer school
[Hook]
I love girls, girls, girls, girls, girls, I do adore
Yo put your number on this paper cuz I would love to date ya
Holla at ya when I come off tour
Now let the people sing
I'm tryin girls out, (just tryin girls out) just tryin girls out
Yo put your number on this paper cuz I would love to date ya
Holla at ya when I come off tour
[Verse 2]
Huh
, who you lovin, who you wanna be fuckin
Who said what, why you trippin girl, why's you fussin?
Got this model slash actress slash part time waitress
Spend a whole day she hangin round with part time haters
All they do is 
diss dirt
 
and put a up on my latest
Itinerary, but since I tend to vary, see
I tend to carry, more rumors than ten Mariah Careys
Tend to hurries
 
in ten places at once
Plus she can't front just peep how I run mines
Ma, our time together is our time together, and uh
Our time apart is our time apart
So love Jay with your mind girl and not your heart
And some day I slow down, but for now
 
I get around
Like the late Makaveli
 or 
Perelli twenty inches
Or caine and O-dog, stick up tape from menace
You tell 'em chicks if they must know my buisness
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I'm lookin for, southern girl that cook like
 
Patti LaBelle
Big ghetto booty, scarf over her doobie
Chanel under the Louis, Gucci over her booty
Vicky cover her titties
, 
attitude of the city
Pretty, witty, girly, worldly
One who likes to party but come home early
Light kinda dark, short sorta tall
Slim, kinda thick I swear I love 'em all
She can cook the coke and got hook up on the license
But she can get you first class seats for coach prices
Isn't this great, my flight leaves at eight
Her flight lands at nine, my game just rewinds
[Hook]
[Outro]
I'm not a one girl's guy, and they know it
When it comes to love, I don't lie, and the girls respect me for it
Ain't gonna say my nose? can't be over
But right now it's just too many fine ladies out there to choose one from
I'm tryin girls out, waiting patiently
Just tryin girls out, until I find the one for me


It's Kanye West straight outta Chi-Town
Super producer brought you joints like
H to the Izzo, Takeover and that new Scarface single
And I'm chillin with the leader of the new school
Absolute heavy hitters y'all
[Intro]
Yo...
I'm Kanye To The, first of all coming straight from the Chi
Uh, I don't lie
It's like the singer say
I've been known to do beats like that, know what I'm saying
Brought you hits such as
Uh, Uh
I love girls, girls, girls, girls
Gimme some brain before I hop up on this plane
Gotta head right back to the Chi
[Verse 1]
Now even though I went to college and dropped outta school quick
I always had a Ph.D.: a Pretty Huge Dick
Ladies tired of getting ripped off by guys like this
And giving head is like a whale that's using a toothpick
Well, I'm in the club for a limited time only
Two way or phone me, if you tryna bone me
Yo man got money, you still feel lonely
Claim he love you, it's no doubt, it's Gwen Stef-phony
You a light skinneded Nia, dark skinneded Tamia
Black Jennifer Lopez, a ghetto senorita
You remind me of my Jeep, but not no Kia
We can talk on my cell, but not Nokia
It be going in and out that's why I barely hear ya
It be going in and out like a robberia
I'm tryna take this money like Rob and G-Dep
And I'mma take you to my house like Trick and Trina
Chi-Town, Chi-Town, big city of dreams
And my dick so big it can't fit in my jeans
And a bitch so mad she can't get in my cream
And it gets so bad she wanna tear up my things
But still
[Hook]
K-A-N-Y-E, Chi-Town playa out in NYC
She said she wanna go on a shopping spree
Bought her some cheap J.Lo jeans cuz the ass is free
[Verse 2]
I love girls, girls, I got a fetish for em
But not no lettuce for em
Dick and bad credit for em
Bills, bills, I know she tryna get paid
She know I'm tryna get laid
She figure that's an even trade off
If she a stewardess I show her to my cockpit
If she a lawyer then I give her Johnnie Cochran
If she wanna see me again
She better get 2 friends then maybe then
We'll have group sex
, toothex
And a young girl off that X
And she just turned eight-teen
Last week she was against the law
So for her birthday I put this dick against her jaw
And like a picture in a frame put it against the wall
Said she had never been with a man before
But she not a virgin, huh
, 
she a lady lover
I didn't know y'all take each other out and date each other
But that's a lady lover
I ain't even know that was ya baby mother
[Hook]
[Outro]
Explain the outro man, don't nobody never get to the outro
I just take a whole record and just
I'm not gonna talk about the producer shit right now
I just want niggas to realize my shit
, you know what I'm saying
2002, aight
I sounded real mad on the last mixtape
I'm not even gonna go there this time, ok


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Yeah, Okay
Ey, Hey yo, Poppin willy shit
Lets see who really rich
Ya'll ride the beat
I'mma bout to pop a wheelie bitch
Really This, I came up with on some silly shit
Look how good it is
I'll show you who you dealin with
Ya'll illy, Im Illa, Im from Illinois
The Big Sean, why dont you call yo Chi Town boys
Show me where they at
I will destroy
Im bout to fuck somethin up
I might as well call the lawyer
Good music run this bitch
Yes we do
I know you thinkin "damn I wish Ye would bless me too"
In the booth I use the restroom
Its best you, Go ahead and kiss the jesus piece Cuz I just blessed you
Uhh,
 
And holy water odds against Ye
Its slaughter ever since I opened up that midnight merrauder?
Now its gon be a problem like a brand new installment from the late great Mr. Christohper Wallace
They call us pompus
Can I be honest? Honestly, Modesty wouldn't ever end my policy
Apology accepted, you ain't say it? Shoulda said it
As soon as I did, all the Bullshit was deaded
Get it?
[Verse 2: Big Sean]
Yup, Yup I get it
G.O.O.D. Music bitch, Ain't nobody fuckin with it
And Nah, nah they can't really do it how we did it
Its GOOD Music bitch, Ain't nobody fuckin with it
B.I.G. is, gee wiz, he is sure he would be the man ever since a fetus
I know us niggas prayin um down fallin weak shit
But Im never goin down hill
Even on ski trips
I am the D
Come and make an observation
And it seem like the murder rate is higher than the population
Damn, I bet you just as sweet as you look bitch
You are just Bushwick, Im 8 foot 6
Im so up up on it like insomniacs
G.O.O.D. Music man, 'Ye where he find me at
I'm so dominant, Im so confident
That I'mma get a compliment on any fuckin continent
From freaks thats fine is shit without this designer shit
Big business, respect my conglomerate
Girls get check, but my bank get check more
Whenever niggas check up, I'm who they check for, or have a check for
Louie V shit so much damier print fuck around and play check-ors
And these rappers get critical damages
But I rap to good its no need for bandages
You the man in your city? Cool..
When am I performin'? 
Right after you
Im sorry but you gone be ranked right after two
Cuz Im first place and second is my crew
So move, Bitch


[Hook: Kanye West (& John Mayer)]
(Go) go, go, go, go, go and on the count of three
(Go) go, go, go, go, go and on the count of three
(Go) go, go, go, go, go, go
And on the count of three everybody run back to your fantasy
, now
[Verse 1: Common]
(Go) 
She was a bad
 
uh
The type at the club niggas would grab her
(Go) Fantasized when I had her
In the bathroom sweatin' with her ass up
(Go) 
The body of a dancer
We had chemistry cause she was a Cancer
Thought forever it would last for
But forever move faster, so I had to
(Go) Still I gotta pause
When I think about her in them draws
(Go) 
And uh, ooh baby she liked it raw and
Like rain when she came it poured
(Go) 
And like a car that I can't afford
I would want it then want some more
The positions our frames explored let me know
She was secure,
 
back for more I wanna
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Common]
(Go) 
Freaky like the daughter of a pastor
Said I was bait for her to master
(Go) 
Little red corvette now she was faster
Wet dreams la Mer cream the bathroom
(Go) 
We make love and then laughter
And anyway I wanted I could have her
Said there were some girls that did attract her
A new chapter she was after
 so I said let's
(Go) To a place that you wanna be, uh
Get what you want from her and me, uh
(Go) Free love I wanna see, uh
Hot sex in the third degree,
 uh
(Go) 
You gettin' served while servin' me,
 uh
Dirty words encourage me to
Rock steady and sturdily on
You turnin' me no turnin' back the further we
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West, 88 Keys, Mike Dean, Noah Goldstein, and Hudson Mohawke]
Provide a new coffin
You don't seek murder like this this often
God level
God level
Our father
Might as well make a new casket
God level
God level
God level
You see sharks in the water
Then they try to do nothin' but put cocks in your daughter
Don't say nothin' 'bout what Ye said
Don't move, mothafucka, play dead
Yeah, we cool, mothafucka, yeah, yeah
God level


[Intro]
[Kanye West x4]
I think it's time for me to go hard as the hood I'm from
[DJ Khaled]
DJ Khaled, we the best
I'm goin' in, I'm goin' in
I do it for the hood cause the hood told me I should
If you rep your hood, and you goin' hard
If the they hatin' on you don't stress
Tell them niggas that we the best
Fuck nigga, you can't stop this
Fuck the rest we run this game
Kanye West, Khaled and Pain
[Hook: T-Pain]
If you could you would get rid of me
What you gonna do when a nigga got to go hard
But I won't let you get to me
You should already figure I'mma go hard
If you was as real as me
You would never let another nigga step in yo' yard
Makin' money ain't shit to me
This in my veins and it gets to my heart
So I am, I will, I gots to go
You got another way to live, gots to go hard
I am gettin' it in until the end I got to go, go, go, go, go hard
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I go the hardest, flow so retarded
I'm disgusted with myself, I mean, were do I start
First I spin around and vomit, then I shit up on it
Fuck the beat up so bad won't nobody get up on it
I flow sick, nigga how sick, sea sick
Got your hand out don't look at me bitch
You lookin' at who made me rich
You lookin' at who made me rich
I had some wins, some losses
Just a life of a God damn boss'
With the top off lookin' for a girl with a ass as fat as Tracee Ross's
This is dope as is get (is to it)
Dope as a mother fuckin' acid trip
Fly as fifty-seven passengers
This finna be another classic, bitch
Everybody know I got it, if you want it then get at it
But I ain't goin' have it
No, I ain't goin' have it
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I ain't ever been scurred
Never been the type to bite my words
When I came up y'all gave me shit
Now I'm finna make y'all eat them turds
Always said what the fuck I felt
Go head spit that murder I wrote
Man I don't care bout what you felt
Fuck you nigga I know I'm dope
Felt like I'm comin to get my all
Felt like I had to play the fly on the wall
Felt like niggas was stuntin on me
Funny how I'm flyer than them all
Now I'm at the top ain't nowhere to go now
Instead of me, she goin' go down
Maybe I would have slowed down if I knew what I know now
I'm stupid yea I know I'm dumb
This could fuckin get old, well it's good I'm young
Before my heart get cold as the hood I'm from
Tell me what it take to be number one
I guess it's goin' be what it's goin' be
But here's one thing y'all got to hear
I'mma tell you like George Bush told me
Fuck ya'll niggas I'm out of here
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
I'm a bad M-a-r-c-y P-r-o-j-e-c-t
Ain't no other motherfucker in the rap game harder than me
I go hard and get it in like a porn star
Follow my moves you wanna make it to the top, I'm on star
For new born stars
Even when the camera stop
I'mma hundred million dollar movie handle my cock
Big homie from the back block
When you first learn how to slap box
Then you even learn how to dribble the pill
Or to hand the pot, bring it back rock
Number one rule if your ass get popped
Don't chatterbox to the Matlocks
Death before dishonor I'mma honor the code they created
Number 2 Rule and it might sound rude but yep... fuck you pay me
I drown my pain in porsches
I lost my partner to the bullshit
Still tryna hold on to my religion so
I put a couple diamonds in the crosses
Close your eyes see the darkness
That's what it's like where I'm from
No lawyers no doctors
So either I go the hardest
Or I could just call this a night
On dark nights its like I see better
On Dark Knights I'm like Heath Ledger
Even if I overdose on drugs
Motherfuckers can't kill my buzz
Wait I ain't done
I'mma freestyle this Khaled let it run
What's the hardest county in the Yayo
Cause ima go harder then they go
I'mma go harder than Baltimore
Philly gone say they can't touch the boy
Where you at Duval?
I'mma go harder than you all
Harder than New York
Turn the Pro Tools in the booth off
I'mma go harder than Ye go
And Ye go hard
That's baby bro
Put some more beat on that joint
[Hook]
If you could you would get rid of me
What you gonna do when a nigga got to go hard
But I won't let you get to me
You should already figure I'mma go hard
If you were as real as me
You would never let another nigga step in yo yard
Makin money ain't shit to me
This in my veins and it gets to my heart
So I am, I will , I gots to go
You got another way to live you gots to go on
I am gettin it in until the end I got to go, go, go , go hard
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I ain't ever been scurred
Never been a type to bite my words
When I came up ya'll gave me shit
Now I'm gunna make ya'll eat them terds
Always said what the fuck I felt
Gon head spit that murder I wrote
Man I dont care what what you felt fuck you nigga I know I'm dope
Dope like I'm comin to get my all
Felt like I had to play the fly on the wall
Felt like niggas was stuntin on me
Funny how I'm flyer then them all
Now I'm at the top ain't know where to go now
Instead of me she gon go down
Maybe I would of slowed down if I knew what I know now
I'm stupid, yeah I know I'm dumb
It could get fuckin old but its good I'm young
But my heart get cold as the hood I'm from
Tell me what it take to be numba one
I guess its gon be what its gon be
But heres one thing ya'll got to hear
I'mma tell you like George Bush told me
Fuck ya'll niggas I'm out of here
[Hook]


I don't think they really ready for my wardrobe
I show up right before the store clothes
And blow the fee from my last 4 shows
I do one song and use four flows
She use to be a Christian before
But now all she wanna do is shop for Christian Dior clothes
Like baby those are cute I adore those
Me & the salesman build a rapport so
He understands the fact that I'm spending offshore dough
Cash only, transactions homie
And please no receipts the feds like to explore those
They can't audit if they dnt know I bought it
I been doin this for years homie, thoroughly I thought it
Through, what it do? I am currently recording on a track admitting most of my Currency’s imported
But too late now, it too legitimate to hit 'em with
Lawsuits even if they're were acts that I did commit
Repeat offender
,
 
Anita Baker
Playin' in the whip as they pull me over my sweet surrender
I gotta jewish lawyer as my lead defender
A real Menschkeit as they say he’s a legal bender
And ATF is present every regal memeber
The coalition, is so efficient
You have to be invited or there's no admission
We know tradition
We spend money so don't try to compete if you're in no position
I wish you would listen
I take you back to this trial
Where I am about to be home again like New Edition
My foot is solely fit for this shoe it fits in
Use to record in the basement that rennie grew his piff in
When pops turned over the keys like a new ignition
If Hov is Jordan, I guess I'm cool with Pippen'
'til I mention I wanna play a new position
No team playin', no screen settin'
Because I wanna win games, coach I'm through assistin'
The take over, the break's over, NIGGA
And I'm a keep killin' em until the day that Drake's over
The wait's over, the tape's coming
They bullshittin' but I'm equipped with great plumbing
The human mentality's so eager to hate something
I try to play it off like it ain't jumpin'
And it's the predicament that you found Drake in
They condo that I just purchased is sound vacant
Cause I have just been sittin' in this cell
Thinkin' what I coulda done to make my first video ground breaking
And whenever I'm flowing on the mic
Aside from the d I'm throwin' in ya' wife
I treat this one session as if it was my last
And I pretend tomorrow is the day I'm going in for life


[Produced by Kanye West and Jon Brion]
[Intro: Jamie Foxx]
She take my money, when I'm in need
Yeah she's a triflin' friend indeed
Oh, she's a gold digger, way over town
That digs on me
[Hook]
(She give me money)
 
Now I ain't saying she a gold digger
(When I'm in need) But she ain't messing with no broke niggas
(She give me money)
 
Now I ain't saying she a gold digger
(When I'm in need) But she ain't messing with no
 
broke niggas
(I gotta leave)
 
Get down girl, go 'head, get down
[Verse 1]
Cutie the bomb, met her at a beauty salon
With a baby Louis Vuitton under her underarm
She said I can tell you rock,
 
I can tell by your charm
Far as girls you got a flock, I can tell by your charm and your arm
But I'm looking for the one, have you seen her?
My psychic told me she'll have a ass like Serena
Trina, Jennifer Lopez
, 
four kids
And I gotta take all they bad asses to showbiz?
Ok, get your kids but then they got their friends
I pulled up in the Benz, they all got up in
We all went to din and then I had to pay
If you fucking with this girl then you better be paid
You know why? It take too much to touch her
From what I heard she got a baby by Busta
My best friend say she use to fuck with Usher
I don't care what none of y'all say, I still love her
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
18 years, 18 years
She got one of your kids, got you for 18 years
I know somebody paying child support for one of his kids
His baby momma's car and crib is bigger than his
You will see him on TV any given Sunday
Win the Super Bowl and drive off in a Hyundai
She was supposed to buy your shorty Tyco with your money
She went to the doctor got lipo with your money
She walking around looking like Michael with your money
Should've got that insured, Geico for your money
If you ain't no punk, holla, "We want prenup!"
"We want prenup!" (Yeah!)
It's something that you need to have
Cause when she leave your ass she gonna leave with half
18 years, 18 years
And on the 18th birthday he found out it wasn't his?!
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Now I ain't saying you a gold digger, you got needs
You don't want a dude to smoke but he can't buy weed
You go out to eat and he can't pay, y'all can't leave
There's dishes in the back, he gotta roll up his sleeves
But while y'all washing
 
watch him
He gone make it into a Benz out of that Datsun
He got that ambition baby look in his eyes
This week he mopping floors next week it's the fries
So stick by his side
I know there's dudes balling and yeah that's nice
And they gonna keep calling and trying but you stay right girl
And when you get on he leave your ass for a white girl
Lemme hear that back


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
Wished I had told ooh was the only one (uh oh!)
But it's too late, it's too late he's gone
[Verse 1: 
]
You sweat her and I ain't talkin 'bout a Coogi
You a Big L and I ain't talkin 'bout Cool J
See me at the airport, at least twenty Louis
Treat me like the Prince and this my sweet brother Numpsay
(Brother Numpsay!)
 
groupies say I'm too choosy
Take em to the show and talk all through the movies
Says she want diamonds, I took her to Ruby Tuesdays
If we up in Fridays, I still have it my way
[Hook]
Too 
, we, gone we striving home
Gone I ride on chrome, it's too late
[Verse 2]
Y'all don't want no prob' from me
What you rappers could get is a job from me
Maybe you could be my intern and in turn
I'll show you how I cook up summer in the winter
Aaron love the raw dog, when will he learn
Caught something on the Usher tour, he had to let it burn
Plus he already got three children
Arguin' over babysitters like bitch it's yo turn
"Damn Ye it'd be stupid to diss you
Even your superficial raps is super-official"
R-R-R-Roc pastel with Gucci on
With TV's in the ride, throw a movie on
Said he couldn't rap now he at the top with Doobie Long
Cause I dookied on any song that they threw me on, gone
[Hook]
We striving home, gone
[Cam] 
I ride on chrome
We striving home, gone
[Cam] 
Killa
, I ride on chrome
[Verse 3: 
]
Knock knock, who's there? Killa Cam, Killa who?
Killa Cam, hustler, grinder, guerilla true
Oh my chinchilla blue, blue
 
you ever dealt with a dealer
Well here's the deal, ma we going to the dealer woo
No concealing, no ceiling I don't need a roof
Act up, get out, I don't need you poof
Poof be gone, damn tough luck dag
Dag niggas still doing puff-puff-pass
Pull the truck up fast and I tell em
Hey back in a touched up Jag shit
Y'all niggas wanna get in Cam's cerebellum
An old man just gon' tell em too late
Then I see how y'all gonna react when I'm gone
My last girl want me back then I'm on
Fine stay, you got the grind hey
Came back, read what the sign say
Yes I know you wanna see my demise
Yeah you church boy, acting like a thief in disguise
Ain’t even my size, see the greed in my eyes
Ask Abby, I hustle, brought weed to the Chi, shit
And that ain't even a lie, please believe me
Gave Weezie a piece of the pie and
You can ask George or Regina
The whole West Side I explore with the
 
Bimmer now
[Hook]
We striving home, I ride on chrome
Listen, homeboy, move on
That's your best 
, why's that, Cons'?
[Verse 4: Consequence]
I been pouring out some liquor for the fact that my pal's gone
And trying to help his Momma with the fact that her child gone
And since we used to bubble like a tub full of Calgon
Guess it's only right that I should help her from now on
But since they got afoul on what could've gone wrong
Now they asking Cons, how long has this gone on
And maybe all this money might have gone to my head
Cause they got me thinking money might have gone to the Feds
So I had gone to the dread, but he had gone up to bed
And when I came the next morning he was gone with my bread
And with that being said I had gone on my instincts
And gone to the spots where they go to get mixed drinks
But looking back now, I should've gone to the crib
And rented 
, cause I'da gone in by ten
But I had gone with my friend, and we had gone to the bar
And heard a nigga talking shit so I had gone to the car
And now the judge is telling me that I had gone too far
And now we gone for twenty years doing time behind bars
And since I gone to a cell for some petty crimes
I guess I gone to the well one too many times, cause I'm gone
[Verse 5: Kanye West]
Uh-uh-uh, uh-uh-uh uh uh onnn, uh uh-uh onnn
Uh-uh onnn, uh uh-uh
I'm ahead of my time, sometimes years out
So the powers that be won't let me get my ideas out
And that make me wanna get my advance out
And move to Oklahoma and just live at my aunt's house
Yeah, I romance the thought of leaving it all behind
Kanye step away from the lime
Light like when I was on the grind
In the One-Nine-Nine-Nine
Before model chicks was bending over or
Dealerships asked me Benz or Rover man
If I could just get one beat on Hova
We could get up off this cheap-ass sofa
What the summer of the Chi got to offer an eighteen-year-old
Sell drugs or get a job you gotta play your role
My dog worked at Taco Bell, hooked us up plural
Fired a week later, the manager count the churros
Sometimes I can't believe it when I look up in the
 
mirro'
How we out in Europe, spending Euros
They claim you never know what you got 'til it's gone
I know I got it, I don't know what y'all on
I'ma open up a store for aspiring MCs
Won't sell 'em no dream, but the inspiration is free
But if they ever flip sides like Anakin
You'll sell everything including the mannequin
They got a new bitch, now you Jennifer Aniston
Hold on I'll handle it, don't start panickin', stay calm
Shorties at the door cause they need more
Inspiration for they life, they souls, and they songs
They said, "Sorry, Mr. West is gone"


[Verse 1 - Mikkey Halsted]
That nigga Mikkey. Kanye. Y'all know
Man I was sick of them bill collectors callin' my crib
And the filthy ass roaches tryin' to crawl in my shit (all in a nigga's cereal)
Before I flip, nigga had to keep callin' them tricks
See I spit now, now these hoes all on my dick (oh you're a rapper?!)
Like "Mikkey won't you take me out?"
Chick please, it takes more than a rat to get cheese
You can lick deez
I worked hard to get G's
You can strip tease
That's too freaky? Well bitch leave!
I'm a cheap nigga
Keep my money discreet nigga
Cause chickens keep talkin' in the streets nigga
So I keep itchy
With a clip that'll spit fifty
Make fifty million spittin' over beats nigga please nigga
[Hook]
I just got a good ass job
The pay is good but the work is too hard
And I don't want to work anymore
So I won't stop till I reach the top
Now I just bought a brand new car
GS4 but the notes is too high
So I'm gonna hit the club and pull some hoes
Before they re-possess my ride
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
Nigga please
You work for UPS
I work for Mickey D's
I plotted on stickin' niggas for at least fifty G's
Run up in they crib for the safe and the keys
Y'all ain't safe around me
We done made wild stacks
Made it to Cadillacs
And still get pulled over for "drivin' while black"
While back bill collectors call
We ain't answer ("He ain't here")
Light company will have to come and blow out our candles
Now you know I got's to take a plane to Jamaica
I Dream Cash like Sega
We workin' with some paper
This spins a lot different from the Cutlass I was whippin'
Y'all niggas still trippin'
Got beef? Pop the clip in
Only a bitch would worry about his obituary
Don't worry
I got something that'll get very close to that
Burn tracks, I ain't suppose to rap
Niggas told me that
Now bitch kiss my plaques
C'mon
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Rhymefest]
I used to work at Steak N' Shake 30 hours a week
Niggas ain't even supervisors, tryin' to act like they chief
Talkin' bout "Get them fries. Naw, turn the meat."
Soundin' like a bitch
Hit him in his mouth then quit
Try to picture this
A king on a slave ship
Workin' the grave shift and ain't even made shit
Tell my crooked ass uncle put me up on the lip?
Drop grease, then slip, get insurance, take trips
Nigga what? Set it up
Get with shorty in the front
I've been skimmin' off the register
"Now Che..." "Shut the fuck up and do it my way"
Don't get caught on camera on your off day
Like Ice Cube on Friday
If I worked in the mall, I be sellin' Coogis out the back
Got a gig at Blockbuster sellin' movies out my 'Lac
Any job that I'm at I'm gettin' goofys for they stacks
If the supervisor comes, nigga be cool and relax
Y'all be workin' hard, I be hardly workin'
And even though our check small, our pockets hardly hurtin'
If I was a DJ it wouldn't take me long
Before drug dealers paid me to play they wack ass songs
C'mon
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro: Kanye West]
Party people in the place to be
You are now in the midst of a
 
real MC
Throw your hands in the air if you real as me
[Hook: Kid Cudi]
Are you ready to go?
I know the city getting ready for me
I know the city getting ready
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Such an easy morning, we on a ride
And I’m feeling smooth as the way the Benz drive
Turn the radio down if they playing that bullshit
They don’t want black people to think and drive
[Common]
He think he live, he think he cold
He think I’m high, I’m in thinker mode
Eyes lowed, I let the sky hold the thoughts
The streets are like the high road that I go across
[Kanye West]
I mean, 
my whole team
 about to smash the streets
The Phillip Lim remind them that it’s Fashion Week
And the weather wasn’t barely hot
Did I mention that the sweater was a 
Jeremy Scott
?
Did I mention G.O.O.D. Music, yeah, forever we hot
Motherfucker, are you ready or not?
[Hook]
[Bridge 1: Kanye West]
This goes out to the hardcore hip-hop
(Can’t stop, you can’t stop)
This goes out to the all core hip-hop
(Can’t stop, you can’t stop)
[Verse 2: Pusha T]
As Ye flips the piano
The mood swings like the change of a channel
He’s heating up like they wrapped him in flannel
Selling kilos through your iPod Nano
Cocaine vandal,
 I induct scandal
Money drive you crazy, look at Marbury’s handle
Vaseline face,
 
reminiscent of my tires
Ice cream paint job, something like Breyer's
Euro tank top, Dior-inspired
Sell it to you hard, no assembly required
Yeah, I’m 2012 in 2010
Which makes this a time machine, not just any Benz
Floss for the members of the gang with the 20 in
While haters wish death upon me, that’s many men
Yeah, and if he slam you on your paper route
Stop talking, motherfucker, pull your paper out
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Big Sean]
Now tell me, do it feel good? Well, all right
Don’t worry, we gon' be here all night
And you know a nigga rep that Westside
 (Westside)
Westside, Westside
So tell me who the freshest of them all?
They claiming that they fresh, they ain’t fresher than my balls
A nigga suited fresh like I'm headed to the ball
MC hunting season, putting heads up on the wall
I sneak peeked ahead while we headed to the loft
Man, I always thought with the head inside my drawers
I guess that’s why in school, my grades went from A's to B's to C's
All over double D's, I be absent all week
This is for my niggas, all the ones I ride for
Man, that’s the fam, we let ‘em in through the side door
Hold on: That’s the girl you gave a wedding ring?
Man, me and my niggas nutted on her everything
[Charlie Wilson]
And let me hear you say ahh
[Bridge 2: Kanye West]
Now put your hands up to the sky
Until the day in that we die
And we’ll be here all evening
G.O.O.D. Fridays, I hope you have a nice weekend
[Hook]


[Produced by DJ Toomp, Kanye West, and Mike Dean]
[Kanye West]
Like we always do at this time
I go for mine, I gots to shine
(Now throw yo' hands up in the sky)
I, go, go for mine, I gots to shine
(Now throw yo' hands up in the sky)
[T-Pain]
I'ma get on the TV momma, I'mma
I'mma put shit down
(Ayy) ayyy (ayy) ayyy
(Ayy) ayyy (ayy) 
I'm good
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Welcome to the good life, where niggas who sell D
Won't even get pulled over in they new V
The good life, let's go on a 
living spree
Shit, they say the best things in life are free
The good life, 
it feel like Atlanta
It feel like L.A.,
 
it feel like Miami
It feel like N.Y.,
 
summertime Chi
Ahhhhh! (Now throw yo' hands up in the sky)
So I roll through good
Y'all pop the trunk,
 
I pop the hood - Ferrari
And she got the goods
And she got that ass, I got to look - sorry!
[Bridge]
Yo it's gots to be 
cause I'm seasoned
Haters give me them salty looks - Lawry's
50 told me
, 
go 'head, switch the style up
And if they hate then let 'em hate and watch the money pile up
The good life
[Hook: Kanye West] + (T-Pain)
Now I, I go for mine, I got to shine
(Now throw yo' hands up in the sky)
Now I, I go for mine, I got to shine
(Now throw yo' hands up in the sky)
(I'ma get on this TV momma, I'ma)
(I'ma put shit down)
Ayy (ayyy) ayy (ayyy)
Ayy (ayyy) ayy (I'm good)
[Verse 2: Kanye West] + (T-Pain)
Welcome to the good life! 
Where we like the girls who ain't on TV
Cause they got mo' (ass than the models)
The good life, 
so keep it comin' with the bottles
Cause she feel booze like she bombed at Apollo
The good life, it feel like Houston
It feel like Philly,
 
it feel like D.C
It feel like V.A
. or 
the Bay
 or 
Yay
Ayy! This is the good life
(Welcome to the good life) Homey tell me what's good
Why I only got a problem when you in the hood
(Welcome to the good life) 
Like I'm new in the hood
The only thing I wish (I wish a nigga would)
(Welcome to the good life!) He probably think he could
But, but, I don't think he should
(Welcome to the good life) 
50 told me, go 'head, switch the style up
And if they hate then let 'em hate and watch the money pile up
The good life
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Have you ever popped champagne on a plane, while gettin some brain
Whipped it out, she said "I never seen Snakes on a Plane"
Whether you broke or rich you gotta get this
Havin money's not everything not havin it is
I was splurgin on Tryst
, 
but when I get my card back
Activated, I'm back to Vegas
Cause (the good life) 
I always had a passion for flashin
Befo' I had it, I closed my eyes and imagined
The good life
[Outro: T-Pain]
Better than the life I lived
When I thought that I was gonna go crazy
And now my grandmomma
Ain't the only girl callin me "baby"
If you feelin me now
Then put yo' hands up in the sky, and let me hear you say
Heyy, heyy, ooooh I'm GOOD!


Or I make the life
I was very rich
Already
But if I think back to when I was making the College Dropout, thinking was this what I expected?
I mean, I didn’t expect the losses and you expect everything to work out well
But I expected real life
And then I suffered the worst pains to help me to grow
So those experiences, I never ask to take them away from me
Because they’re all in God’s plan and help make me the man I am today
And help make me more of a soldier and a vessel
Because if I hadn’t suffered those losses, I might be scared or too scared to fight the war on traditional thinking
[Intro]
Better than the life I lived
When I thought that I was gonna go crazy
And now my grandmomma
Ain't the only girl callin me "baby"
And if you feelin me now
Then put yo' hands up in the sky, let me hear you say
Heyy, heyy, like we always do at this time
[Hook]
I go for mine, I gots to shine
Now throw yo' hands up in the sky
I, gotta go for mine, I gots to shine
Now throw yo' hands up in the sky
Imma get on the TV momma and I'mma
Yo, I'mma put shit down
(Ayy) ayyy (ayy) ayyy
(Ayy) ayyy (ayy) [I'm good]
[Verse 1]
Welcome to the good life, where homies who sell D
Won't even get pulled over in they new V
The good life, let's go on a living spree
Man, they say the best things in life are free
The good life, [it feel like Atlanta
It feel like L.A. it feel like Miami
[It feel like N.Y. summertime Chi
Ahhhhh! Now throw yo' hands up in the sky
So I roll through good
Y'all pop the trunk,I pop the hood - Ferrari
And she got the goods
And she got that ass, I got to look - sorry!
[Bridge]
Yo it's gots to be cause I'm seasoned
Haters give me them salty looks - Lawry's
50 told me [go 'head, switch the style up
And if they hate then let 'em hate, watch the money pile up
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Welcome to the good life! Where we like the girls who ain't on TV
Cause they got mo' (ass than the models)
The good life, so keep it comin' with the bottles
Cause she feel booze like she bombed at Apollo
The good life, it feel like Philly
It feel like D.C. it feel like D.C
It feel like V.A. or the Bay or Yay
Ayy!
Homey tell me what's good
Why I only got a problem when you in the hood?
Like I'm new in the hood
The only thing I wish, I wish a nigga would
He probably think he could
But, but, I don't think he should
50 told me, go 'head, switch the style up
And if they hate then let 'em hate and watch the money pile up
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Have you ever popped champagne on a plane, while gettin some brain
Whipped it out, she said "I never seen Snakes on a Plane"
Whether you broke or rich you gotta get this
Havin money's not everything not havin it is
I was splurgin on Tryst, but when I get my card back
Activated, I'm back to Vegas
I always had a passion for flashin
Befo' I had it, I closed my eyes and imagined
The good life
Everybody wants the good life
Welcome to the good life
Let me hear you say:
Heyy, heyy, ooooh I'm GOOD!
Better than the life I lived
When I though that I was gonna go crazy
[Hook x3]


[Produced By: Kanye West]
[Intro]
Uhh.. uhh
Good morning!
[Verse 1]
Wake up Mr. West, Mr. West
Mr. Fresh, Mister, by himelf he's so impressed
I mean damn, did you even see the test?
You got D's, muthafucka D's, Rosie Perez
And yer ass barely passed
 
any and every class
Looking at every ass, cheated on every test
I guess, this is my dissertation
Homie this shit is basic, welcome to Graduation
[Hook]
Good morning! (x4)
[
Verse
 2]
Good morning, on this day we become legendary
Everything we dreamed of
I'm like the fly Malcolm X, buy any jeans necessary
Detroit Red cleaned up
From the streets to the league, from a eighth to
 
a ki'
But you graduate when you make it up outta the streets
From the moments of pain, look how far we done came
Haters saying you changed, now you doing your thang
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Good morning, look at the valedictorian
Scared of the future while I hop in the DeLorean
Scared to face the world, complacent career student
Some people graduate, but be still stupid
They tell you read this, eat this, don't look around
Just peep this, preachers, teach us, Jesus
Okay look up now, they done stoled yo' streetness
After all of that you received this
[Outro] x5
Good morning!
(Hustlers that's if you're still living, get on down)
Every time that we hear them, good morning!


I'm not a one girl's guy... [real talk for ya, peep game]
And they know it, when it comes to love I don't lie [we don't lie man]
And the girls respect me for it [you gotta respect that]
Ain't gonna say my nose can't be open [I may never say never]
But right now it's just too many fine ladies out there
To choose one from [too many ladies, ha]
I'm tryin' girls out, just tryin' girls out
[Hook]
I love girls, girls, girls
Girls, girls I do adore
Yo put your number on this paper cuz
I would love to date ya
Holla at ya when I come off tour
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Whoo! Who you lovin, who you wanna be huggin, heh
Who you wit, who you wanna be fuckin
Got this smarty art chick to whom I pose this question
I read a couple books to add to her soul's progression
To put this in laymen's term, I gave her some knowledge
She gave me, brains in return, she had to drop out of college
Knowin she does this homework, I give her in house tutoring
In and out I'm movin through her student body union and
She, call me professor, say daddy come and test her
So she could fail on purpose and repeat the semester
I'm like, at this rate ma you never graduate
She said, I ain't no fool I make it up in summer school
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Now let the people sing
I'm tryin girls out, [just tryin girls out] just tryin girls out
Yo put your number on this paper cuz I would love to date ya
Holla at ya when I come off tour
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Now even though I went to college and dropped out of school quick
I always had a P.H.D.--A pretty huge dick
Ladies tired of getting ripped off by guys like this
And giving head is like a whale that's using a toothpick
Well--I'm in the club for a limited time only
2 way or phone me if you tryna bone me
Yo man got moe-nee, you still feel lonely
Claim he love you, it's no doubt, it's Gwen Stef-phony
You a light skinded Nia
, 
a dark skinned Aaliyah
A Black Jennifer Lopez, a ghetto senorita
You remind me of my Jeep, but not no Kia
We can talk on my cell, but not Nokia
It be going in and out thats why I barely hear ya
I be goin' in and out just like a robberia
I’m tryna take this money like Rob and G-dep
Then i'mma take you to my house like Trick and Trina
Chi-Town, Chi-Town, big city of dreams
And my dick so big it can't fit in my jeans
And a bitch so mad she can't get in my cream
And it get so bad she wanna tear up my things
But still, K-A-N-Y-E
Chi-Town playa out in N-Y-C
She say she wanna go on a shopping spree
Bought her some cheap J.Lo jeans 'cuz the ass was free
[Outro]
I'm not a one girl's guy, and they know it
When it comes to love, I don't lie, and the girls respect me for it
Ain't gonna say my nose? can't be over
But right now it's just too many fine ladies out there to choose one from
I'm tryin girls out, waiting patiently
Just tryin girls out, until I find the one for me


[Intro: Kanye West]
Uh, GOOD Music, this our year
Backing drums by 
DJ Premier
Now let me count it down, who the fuck up in here
Common
, 
Don
, Old G, battle rap, oh
That niggas know you can’t really fuck with that
Pusha T, the Clipse
 
just made a classic
Good music together we too Jurassic
, 
you stay plastic
Ramadan with the flow, guaranteed everyone fasting
Big Sean is a don
Cyhi
 Da Prynce
Why you so nervous dog stop being tense
If you ain't talking bout Rash we ain't got nothing in common
Fuck that and thats just 
common sense
[Pusha T]
Came in the game, 8 years prior
8 years later, your mans on fire
My Book of Eli, to all my subscribers
Play the two doors, street car named desire
Came in Grindin’, Ye’ came Through the Wire
Met at the crossroads, Bone thugs inspired
1st of the month
, 
Trump to the buyers
Red Toupée on the coupe you've been fired
Smooth criminal, no prior’s
Man in the mirror, check no liar
Still let that "butter fly" like Mariah
Show me the money the black Jerry MaGuire
Tom Cruise on that couch if that money right
West Hollywood feels like a bunny night
With GOOD company and better jewelers
To the Good Life, we GOOD music
[Big Sean]
Man, I wake up to a wet dream
Every day’s a Friday and every nights a sex scene
Every week is fashion week and every day I’m pressed clean
Detroit’s Angel, I even got red wings
I’m headed to the ball, me and three prom queens
My life’s prom night and guess who’s the Prom King
They having a kissing fight and I’m Don King
Everybody know I’m coming soon like LeBron’s ring
I’m Big L, Notorious, Big Pun, Shawn Carter
Sean Combs and Connery all in one
Whoever told you sky’s the limit is looking dumb
Cause I’m 22 and I’m moonwalking on the sun
Oh thats your girl?
She feelin on my "whoa there!"
, 
right next to a couple boaters
And she tryna motor boat her
And im coming from the w-w-westside of the Motor
You might find banana clips ’cause it’s Guerilla warfare
Last year I was watching this from the couch
And now I’m here
That should let you know what I’m about
Reaper black suit cuz my whole team’s killing
Had to keep setting trends cuz your whole team stealin
Many tell me I’m the man I ain't made it yet
Tell me who the baddest, I’ll see if I seen them naked yet
Won’t stop til I get that Mercedes 700 CLK and Mercedes ain't made it yet
[Cyhi Da Prince]
I’m Mr 
Got bread like Quizno’s
Better known as MJ with the big nose
I swear your artist couldn’t see me on his tip toes
Only on TV I gotta take a quick pose
Let me stop I forgot this was a big show
And being dope made you broke I am piss poor
I’m big poppa plus I’m 2pacalypto
My mind is a weapon what I need to pop a clip for
Huh, I’m doing this for hip hop
Im coming after you, him and his spot
Still tied to the streets like a hitch knot
Ain't nothing fake, I’m not a Rolly with a tick tock
Atlanta repper in the home of the Yankee
Rose wood suit on with the hanky
I got rich from the zones of the stanky
So everybody know my money long, lanky!
So I’m flexible stretching out my decimel’s
Switching up the flow got the crowd going testicles
Can’t bleep it out cuz there wasn’t nothing sexual
I’m blowing loud, somebody check the decibels
I’m impeccable they put me on the pedestal
And if you bite me, it’s good for you like a vegatable
Shows by the several, schedule full of festivals
And if I ever do time than you know its federal
Uh, incredible, yeah
[Common]
F-f-fam fam fam I’ma monster too
You don’t see I do things that the monsters do
The incomparable, remarkable, articles
About my audio technique, my technique
I recognise games like the ESPY’s
Cold to myself I say God Bless me the truth
So I speak live and directly
You, I will set free my mic is where my check be
Rah, I echo, I echo, I echo, the sounds of the ghetto, future of the retro
Prolly in the metro just so I can get dough
The name is Common but the frame is special
Leave requested from the years I’ve invested
Arrested, develop,
 
addressed it, envelope
The body of the black party from Farley to Bob Marley
Go home or go hard, at home is life hardly
[Kanye West]
The plan was to drink till the pain over
What’s worse, the pain or the hangover?
Fresh air rolling down the window
Too many urkels on your team thats why your Winslow
I sold my soul to the devil thats a crappy deal
Least it came with a few toys like a happy meal
This game you could never win
Cause they love you then they hate you then they love you again
Get away from me lonliness
Get away from me misery
Get away from me fake shit, I can’t take the phoniness
Get away from me wack tracks
I can only make only hits
I’m an only child 
lost in the World
Where did the lonely kids go when the bell ring
Feeling like 
hell rings
Bringing me back down
Checking my background
Its ironic whats happening
Imagine if I didn’t have the ends
I wouldn't have so many imaginary friends
I’m spaced out Dog, I be on that Moon talk
Wonder if God ask Mike how to moon walk
I swear to momma wish me and my father talk more
I stopped visiting around the time I was a sophmore
I guess everything I hate about me I see in him
And I ain't finna change, so we’ll never agree again
Just a few things pouring out my soul
Rosewood we could see her with our eyes closed


[Intro: Mos Def]
I'm not sure anymore, more
Who is knocking at my door, door
All the faces that I know
Ja make them so sunny and true
[Hook: Mos Def]
I don't wanna say goodbye, to you
So I'll just say good night, to you
My people, no goodbyes to you
I'mma just say good night
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Right now I can see it so vivid
Like it was just yesterday like I could relive it
Me and my grandparents on a field trip
And I'm the little kid tryna touch the exhibits
But it'll fade before I get to get a hold of that
Man I wish I could stop time like a photograph
Every joke that they told I'd know to laugh
Man (man), I wouldn't let a moment pass
What do it mean when you dream that you fallin'
What do it mean when you dream that you ballin'
What do it mean when you never dream at all then
And you don't really know cause you can't recall them
It's sorta fly you get a chance to say hi to
People you never got a chance to say bye to
Maybe you could pull em up outta your dreams
Into real life (real life), if you try to
So close (so close), but so far (so far)
And so far (so far), no cigar (no cigar)
We can't dwell on the past all we got is today
So I'mma live like it's no tomorrow
No goodbyes
[Hook]
[Verse 2: 
Al Be
]
Uh, to you
If I part, my art will live through you
Dream beautiful, and unusual
Wake up like everyday new to you
Stay true to you, a hood musical
My art will live through you
Dream beautiful and unusual
Wake up like everyday new to you
Stay true to you, a hood musical
[Hook]
[Outro: Mos Def]
I'm not sure anymore, more
Who is knocking at my door, door
All the faces that I know
Ja make them so sunny and true


[Produced by Kanye West, Mike Dean & No I.D.]
[Hook: Kid Cudi]
Ain’t no question if I want it, I need it
I can feel it slowly drifting away from me
I’m on the edge, so why you playing? I’m saying
I will never ever let you live this down, down, down
Not for nothing I’ve forseen it, I dream it
I can feel it slowly drifting away from me
No more chances if you blow this, you bogus
I will never ever let you live this down, down, down
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Penitentiary chances, the devil dances
And eventually answers to the call of Autumn
All of them fallin’ for the love of ballin’
Got caught with 30 rocks, the cop look like Alec Baldwin
Inter century anthems based off inner city tantrums
Based off the way we was branded
Face it, Jerome get more time than Brandon
And at the airport they check all through my bag
And tell me that it’s random
But we stay winning,
 
this week has been a bad massage
I need a happy ending
 
and a new beginning
And a new fitted, and some job opportunities that's lucrative
This the real world, homie, school finished
They done stole your dreams, you dunno who did it
I treat the cash the way the government treats AIDS
I won’t be satisfied til all my niggas get it,
 
get it?
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Is hip hop just a euphemism for a new religion?
The soul music of the slaves that the youth is missing
This is more than just my road to redemption
Malcolm West had the whole nation standing at attention
As long as I’m in Polo smiling, they think they got me
But they would try to crack me if they ever see a black me
I thought I chose a field where they couldn’t sack me
If a nigga ain't shootin' a jump shot, running a track meet
But this pimp is, at the top of Mount Olympus
Ready for the World’s game, this is my Olympics
We make ‘em say ho cause the game is so pimpish
Choke a 
 writer with a fishstick
I insisted to get up offa this dick
And these drugs, niggas can't resist it
Remind me of when they tried to have Ali enlisted
If I ever wasn't the greatest nigga, I must have missed it!
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I need more drinks and less lights
And that American Apparel girl in just tights
She told the director she tryna get in a school
He said “take them glasses off and get in the pool”
It’s been a while since I watched the tube
Cause like a Crip said, I got way too many blues for any more bad news
I was looking at my resume feeling real fresh today
They rewrite history I don’t believe in yesterday
And what’s a black Beatle anyway, a fucking roach
I guess that's why they got me sitting in fucking coach
My guy said I need a different approach
Cause people is looking at me like I’m sniffing coke
It's not funny anymore, try different jokes
Tell ‘em hug and kiss my ass, x and o
Kiss the ring while they at it,
 
do my thing while I got it
Play strings for the dramatic ending of that wack shit
Act like I ain't had a belt in two classes
I ain't got it I’m coming after whoever who has it
I’m coming after whoever. Who has it?
You blowin' up, that’s good, fantastic
That y’all, it's like that y'all
I don’t really give a fuck about it at all
Cause the same people that tried to black ball me
Forgot about two things, my black balls
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Raekwon]
I done copped Timb's, lived in lenses, kid
Armani suits,
 
fresh fruits,
 
Bally boots
 
and Benzes
Counting up, smoking,
 
one cuff
Live as a red Jag, a Louis bag,
 
grabbing a blunt, fuck it
Steam about a hundred and one L's
Kites off to jails,
 
buying sweats,
 
running up in Stetson
Nigga hat game was special
It matched every black pair of Nikes,
 
throwing dice for decimals
The older head, bolder head, would train a soldier head
Make sure he right in the field, not a soldier dead
That meant code red,
 
bent off the black skunk
The black dutch,
 
back of the old shed
If you can’t live, you dying, you give or buy in
Keep it real or keep it moving,
 
keep grinding
Keep shining, to every young man, this is a plan
Learn from others like your brothers Rae and Kanye
[Outro: Kid Cudi]


[Hook 1: Kanye West]
They gossipin', it runs the city
They don't know who watchin them, when they coming to get me
So I hit the block and bend, do about 60
And I put my Glocks to them, like blaow blaow blaow
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I'm finna get on this TV and put shit down
I ain't finna let these light skinned niggas come back in style
I'm finna turn to this class clown shit to crazy g's
They told my Momma I was bipolar had A.D.D
I told 'em w-what I wanna do: I wanna be a baller
The dream spoilers'll fool ya
Hatin' on you to they mans on the corners
Old folks said he'd never make it off the corner
They are the virus that corrupts the soul
They are the cubic zirconia inside the 10 karat gold
That get green on you, when you get green on 'em
You gotta wash your hands of 'em,
 get clean on 'em
Somebody told success is the best revenge
So they going to be fucked up when you do ya thing on 'em
Now hold your plaques high, like who would've thought
And tell em *ahem ahem ahem*, thank you for your no support
[Hook 2: Kanye West & Ol' Dirty Bastard Sample]
They are the dreamkillers, they the dreamkillers
Who know a dream, uh they are the dream 
(killer Norman Bates!)
They the dreamkillers, they the dreamkillers
Dream, they are the dream 
(killer Norman Bates)
[Verse 2]
Now how you going to talk about the way I spend my money
Everybody say it with me now: it's my money
And they know they hating; but what they don't know is
They are my motivation, they are my inspiration
Cause we the leaders, and they the followers
And we the nut busters, and they the swallowers
They are the rumors, they are the lies
We are the shit dog, and they the flies
How you going to tell me how to live my life
And you can't even get your own shit tight, right
They are the misery that loves company
Cause that comfortable corporate job can't comfort me
Told em I finished school, then I started my own business
They said, "Oh you graduated?"
Nah I decided I was finished
Chasin yall dreams and what you got planned
Now I spit it so hot you got tanned
And they hate on your relationship, then break your marriage up
Can't kill your dreams so they assassinate your character
Do anything to downplay ya or embarrass ya
Come around with ya but they ain't down with ya
They the dreamkillers
[Instrumental Break]
(Killer, Norman Bates)
[Verse 3]
And I'm through spitting these rappers my most heartfelt flow
They be like "That's cool, you got some beats for me though?"
Oh I get it, you want to be Snoop and Dr. Dre
But don't nobody give a fuck what you got to say
Anyway what you finna rap about?
You never sold crack out ya house or put a gat to a mouth
Or put ya fist to ya spouse, so how you going to move the crowd?
I bet a thousand that you get booed out
I even heard that they even taking wagers in jail
They bet ten boxes of cigarettes that I'm finna fail
Second you talk about peace, they going to be like: "Peace"
This nigga came from the Chi, moved to the east
You got to kill at least one person at least
Or we'll evict you from the rap game, cancel your lease
How you go to New York, what you ain't never took a tour there?
What you ain't know you gotta be rich just to be poor there?
The dreamkillers
[Hook 1]


[Beanie Sigel]
Yo I come from a crack in the ground, a hole in the wall
And dog when the crack ain't around, the smokers'll brawl
Streets like a bullet in cancer, it'll swallow you up
Or eat you from the inside and hollow you up
And everyday like a test, you know life got rules
And its sorta like checkers and chess
I went to school and took the lessons punk
Know a pawn get kinged, a bishop get juiced
A rook get jumped
Faggot niggas took the easy route
They either coked out, smoked out, doped out
Niggas took the needle route
And I ain't tryin to take either route
I'm tryin to stop get weeded out
Really, tryin to weed it out
No the flipside we choosin your way
Like gettin fat from losin the weight
Or losing that from, usin the weight
I feel like I'm speeding and I'm 'bout to crash
No where to go and I'm gettin there fast
[Hook]
(girl singing)
Ooouu hooouu, got nowhere
Ooouu hooouu, I got nowhere to
Ooouu hooouu, got nowhere
Ooouu hooouu, I got nowhere to ruuuuunnnnnnn
(man speaking, girl singing throughout)
We in the streets player get your mail
There's only two places to go, we either dead or in jail
What the...
(girl singing)
Ooouu hooouu, I got nowhere
[Beanie Sigel]
Eh yo I'm caught up in the system where the blind lead the blind
And this artist only speaks on the signs of the time
And I pop pills in purple rain to state my pain
They say I'm just like my father, bold and too cold
But you know thats how a thug ride
I send a kite through a dove in a jail where the thugs cry
I feel your pain when you restrained and your love die
And make your heart hard, the blood in your vein fry
Feel like I'm trapped and I'm blindfolded
But my eyes wide open to see it
Feel like the O'Jay's, climbin those stairways hopin
Heaven's gates wide open for me
Look towards a lie, Sige in direction
Still I spin in every direction, seekin directions
Tryin to balance out the good with the imperfections
Yeah I know I still move with nowhere to go
[Hook]
[Freeway]
It seems like we grind from the bottom
Just to make it to the bottom to see faces of the people that I shot
When I get high late night, flow through the bottom
My aunt's house, one of the places that I stopped
See she just died, she got cancer from smokin and drinkin
The same shit that I'm drinkin and smokin
I can't lie, wish life would just open its handcuffs
And let me go, I feel like I'm doin a bit
I can't slide, so what I'm a rapper?
I can't escape the wrath of Allah
If I crash up my whip or get, blast in the jaw
Prick, mastered his fifth
I might go triple platinum, become a household name
After a long day of out of town work make my way to the plane
Plane fast in the tenth
Hear mayday, mayday, control's outta work
How the hell can life end like this? Nowhere to go
[Hook]


[Produced By: Kanye West & The Neptunes]
[Intro]
Turn my headphones up, louder
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
'Ello, 'ello, 'ello, hello white America, assassinate my character
Money matrimony, yeah they tryna break the marriage up
Who gon' act phony, or who gone try to embarrass ya
I'mma need a day off, I think I'll call Ferris up
(Bueller had a Muller
 
but I switched it for a Mille
Cause I’m richer and prior to this shit was moving free base)
Had a conference with the DJs, Puerto Rico three days
(Poli with the PDs now they got our shit on replay)
Sorry I’m in pajamas but I just got off the PJ
And last party we had, they shut down Prive
(Ain’t that where the Heat play?
 
Niggas hate ballas these days) Yep!
Ain’t that like Lebron James?
 
(Ain’t that just like D. Wade? Wait)
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Wussup, wussup, wussup, wussup
Wussup muh'fucka where my money at?
You gon make me come down to your house where yo mommy at
Mummywrap the kids, have ‘em cryin’ for they mommy back
Dummy that your daddy is, tell 'em I just want my racks
(Racks on racks on racks) Racks!
(Maybachs on bachs on bachs on bachs on bachs)
Who in that?
 
(Oh shit, it’s just blacks on blacks on blacks)
(Hundred stack) How you get it? (Nigga layin’ raps on tracks)
I wish I could give you this feeling,
 
I’m planking on a million
I’m riding through yo hood, you can bank I ain’t got no ceiling
(Made a left on Nostrand Ave., we in Bed Stuy)
Made a right on 79th, I’m coming down South Shore Drive
(I remain Chi-town)
 
Brooklyn ‘til I die
[Outro: James Brown]
Take ‘em on home, take ‘em on home…
I got what you need, what, what you need
Tryna hurt my name, huh?


[Produced by Illmind, Jeff Bhasker, Kanye West, & Travis Scott]
[Hook: D'Banj]
Im getting this nigga in the morning
He gon' think he been chiefing, just too long when
He see me in the evening, wanna catch all these feelings
Well let me be the first to get mine, Ohh!
[Verse 1: 2 Chainz]
Okay I’m chillin’ in my camo, flippin’ through the channel
On my GOOD Music shit, my logo’s a Lambo
Four doors of ammo, ammunition I’m pitching
To make your body switch another position
And listen, my weed loud
, 
fuck her and speed off
Tell 'em I bare arms, I'm cuttin my sleeves off
Lettin' my tats show
 and I sag my pants
Im letting my ass show,
 
I'm hot as tabasco
I study, Castro, yeah, my plug from Cuba
Inside of the car is like a damn computer
Inside of the crib is like a damn museum
You ain't seen these before, you better get 'em on film
Tryin to take these fat pockets, man your chances are slim
Disrespect, you stomp em out, man give em a Tim
You ain't did what I did, see I know I'mma win
And they dont have slow-motion so I did it again
Woah!
[Hook: D'Banj]
[Verse 2: 2 Chainz]
Okay I'm sittin' on the plane, flying over graves
I am so high, nigga I can talk to rain
My outfit's insane, ain't that evident?
My chain had another chain like it was pregnant
My favorite dish is turkey lasagna
Even my pajamas designer
She got a fat ass I make her rewind
Back seat so big I press recline
Got a dirty sprite in my cup holder
Rappers like road kill, they get run over
They get done over, it's just one solider
This flow will make you fall like its October
Me and your girl, nigga opposite of sober
Celine Paris chain charm look like a cobra
Young Casanova, Baby Romeo
I got my girl geeked, she look like she from Tokyo
[Hook: D'Banj]


I'd like to thank everybody who came out tonight to rock with me.
 
You could have been anywhere in the world. You could have been anywhere in the world...
This is the part of the show where I start complaining about shit, justifying shit, but you know how it is.
 
I'm just happy to be making music and happy to be able to perform this shit for you all
. 
You know with this album, we didn't drop no single for radio; we ain't have no big NBA campaign or nothing like that
, 
we ain't even got no cover.
 
We just made some real music
Back when I used to make albums and shit like a couple years ago, 3 years ago, like 4 years ago
, 
we'd go away and work on an album for like 5 months or something
, 
we'd always have to hold the album til like August or September for the perfect moment or some shit. Because it means that you're probably gonna sell more, get more audience and radio and shit
But, honestly, at this point, when I listen to radio, that ain't where I wanna be no more.
 
And, honestly, at this point
, 
I could give a fuck about selling a million records
 
as long as I can put out an album this summer that you guys can rock to all motherfucking summer.
 
Y'all don't tell me I'm gonna sell more records. Because at this point, I don't really give a fuck about outside opinions.
 
All I give a fuck about is my clique-clique-clique....


[Produced by Kanye West]
What in the fuck was that Kanye?!
I told you to do some shit for the kids!
You can give me your muthafuckin' graduation ticket right now!
You will not walk across that stage, you won’t slide across that stage!
A muthafucka can’t pull you across that stage Kanye!
Who told you see, I told you to do somethin' uplifting!
I’m tryin' to get you out here with these white people and this how you're gonna do me!
You know what, you's a nigga!
And I don’t mean that in no nice way
Had little kids sing about the shit, the jokes on you
You throw your mutha hands in the air, and wave good-bye to everybody
Cause you gettin' the fuck out of this campus
Mutha what you gone do now
[John Legend]
I'm no longer confused but don't tell anybody
I'm about to break the rules but don't tell anybody
I got something better than school but don't tell anybody
My momma would kill me but don't tell anybody
She wants me to get a good ass job just like everybody
She ain't walked in my shoes I'm just not everybody


[Refrain: Kanye]
Oh it can't Be
G.O.O.D. music my Grammy family
Used to bump the demo up outta the Camry
Now I'm hopping out the limo or either the Lam B
But you niggas gon' get in 'til you get to Miami
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
GLC gon be stoned as Angie
I be Don C,
 
Johnny Patron and me
It's a celebration bitches more bottles of cham-p-aign
In love with the same stripper that sprung T-Pain
And all this Louis Vuitton shit ain't cheap mayn
Dawg I can't keep saying G.O.O.D music the greatest latest
Stunting out the middle of nowhere like Vegas
From the Chi, the city of hella haters
Where we keep rising to the top like elevators
Hi haters I'm back off hiatus I feel just like you I mean even I hate us
Turn the radio down I mean every song
Yeezy got a vision that's clearer than Evian
Used to hit the radio them faggots ain't let me on
Until Khaled turned up the volume
Hit the club with it come on homie they wilding
Nas done told you come on homie we major
Really Doe told you hoes where we staying
G.O.O.D music up in this bitch now quit playing
[Refrain]
Dawg it can't be
G.O.O.D. music the Grammy family
A little bit a stunting, flicking dawg it ain't deep
I'm only trying to spend what they claim you can't keep
Before you die so I make sure I stay on the Chi side
Like Lakeshore Drive
The Grammy Family
[Verse 2: Consequence]
Oh no it can't be
G.O.O.D. music my Grammy family
Used to bump the demo up outta the Camry
Now I'm hopping out the limo or either the Lam B
And after music meetings with Ebro and Angie
It's gon' prolly add a joint that got John Legend and me
And we, be in Miami
So when they spot me and Bentley it's gon be a stampede
Cause we be racing Bentleys no different than Grand Prix
Fam please, don't make my man squeeze
And we can take it to the gloves and I'll show you the hand speed
I started independent with owners from land speed
But now they recognize the way they did for Sam Sneed
And since I got my shot like I was calling "Man B"
A ho'll lose they spot and guaranteed a plan B
Will be waiting in the telly like Jamie and Fancy
Prolly painting they nails in nothing but they panties
And we'll be uptown like Jimmy and Cam be
Heading to the game to watch Kenyon and Camby
They can't breathe or hardly catch they next breath
And I know my nigga Ye told you we was the best dressed
I know I got a buzz so platinum's the next step
So what ya'll wanna do when it comes to that next check
And bet Quence and Khaled know what the business is
So open up them envelopes you know who the winners is
Oh, Oh, Oh, The Grammy Family
[John Legend]
On Grammy night call it G.O.O.D. family night
Celebrate tonight
Oh it's alright, it's alright, yeah


[Intro: Big Sean]
God, oh, God
I've been working all god damn year, I just got my check
I'm 'bout to spend it all on me,
 
I'm worth it
[Bridge: Big Sean & Kanye West]
Hol' up, tell me what you see
Pull up, watch these motherfuckers freak
Why don't ya say waddup though when you see me in the streets
G.O.O.D. Music in this bitch now drop that motherfuckin beat
[
Hook: Big Sean
 & Kanye West]
Okay, this to all of my enemies that seeing me gettin' guap right now
Seeing me gettin' guap right now, seeing me gettin' guap right now
This to all of my hatin' hoes that seeing me gettin' guap right now
Seeing me gettin' guap right now, hell yeah, I won't stop right now
This to all my old hoes that seeing me gettin' guap right now
Seeing me gettin' guap right now, hell yeah, I won't stop right now
Seeing me gettin' guap right now, hell nah, I won't stop right now
Hell nah, I won't stop right now, seeing me gettin' guap right now
[Verse 1]
Okay, I need 50k large (right now)
My momma need a new crib (right now)
My daddy need a new car (right now)
So I be goin' so hard (right now)
Detroit is my yard (right now)
I need a 17 car garage (right now)
I need a 17 broad menage (right now)
I need a jail house to free my dogs (right now)
I done paid taxes, paid dues, paid bills my whole life
So I'mma throw money in the air, like I'm tryin' to pay the sky
Told myself that man if I can't live like this, I'd rather die
I give it up to God, and he always replies
"Control yo' hoes, you let her talk to you crazy
You got baby mama drama, you ain't even got you no baby!"
You fugazi, b-boss up, boss up with your time dog
You ain't got time for no hoes, I ain't even got time for no time off
I'm on
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Okay, I need 50k large (right now)
My homie just beat the charge (right now)
My brother need a new job (right now)
So I be goin' so hard (right now)
I need my face on a black card (right now)
My iPhone need a charge (right now)
My fish tank need sharks (right now)
I need a blimp to say the worlds ours (right now)
So these niggas can know
 
I do what they can't
I'm stuntin' for all the people who ain't
You still hatin'? You should be fuckin' ashamed
Far as I came, guess when you're running the game they want you to sprain
Yeah, I know, but I don't get my stress on
Takin' shots, swear it's like my stomachs made of Teflon
They like, "Boy, won't you get your rest on?"
Bitch, cause I'm up for every hour I was slept on
And last night I dreamed about two girls, bisexual
They was tryin' things, trisexual
Then I woke up in a city where the population match the death toll
Drew my blueprint, got it illustrated, F.F. affiliated
Millions chasin' go to sleep wake up continuated
Life of a Don, Chandon sippin', never had a palm readin'
Always had my palms itchin' time to get it
Boy, I was taught to get it till it's gone
Even when I got it, watch me get it like I don't
[Bridge] + [Hook]
[Outro]
Right now, whoa (x6)
This to all my enemies that see me gettin' guap right now
See me gettin' guap right now, hell yeah, won't stop right now
See me gettin' guap right now, hell nah, won't stop right now
Hell nah, won't stop right now, see me gettin' guap right now


[Kweli talking]
Yeah
Yeah! That's what I'm talkin about!
Let's do it... Kanye West, c'mon turn me up and
Black Thought, c'mon turn me up and
Pharoahe Monch, c'mon turn me up and
Talib Kweli in the house with
[
Hook: Kanye West
]
Guerrilla Monsoon
 
rap -
 all the shorties like "who dat?"
Got the whole crowd like "how ya do dat?"
Nigga you, get smacked 'til ya blue black
And ya crew, give me dap like true dat
We come through and all the shorties like "who dat?"
Got the whole crowd like "how ya do dat?"
Nigga you, get smacked 'til ya blue black
And ya crew, give me dap like true dat
[Black Thought]
Yo, I hit these emcees with the grip of death like I was a Vulcan
Ain't a lot of "ifs" an "ands", it's just straight talkin
It's hard to swallow at times, so take portions
Bitin off more than you can chew, create orphans
Emcee species endangered like dolphins
Rappers is spittin nails into they own coffins
 (c'mon)
Hear come the Dundee moves rocket-launchin (yeah)
Black Thought, quit playin him close and back up off him
[Talib Kweli]
Kweli -- 
spruce to the tree,
 
Bruce to the Lee
Favorite emcee, that your favorite rapper used to be
One by one I knock 'em out like Schoolly D
 - 
my rhymes is eulogy
A flea could move a tree, before ya think ya movin me
I black and blue emcees
 
- actin new to me, get smacked stupidly
That lack skills, like the black community lack unity
 (uh)
Still my rhymes hurt like Ali to Fraiz'
Step off the stage to shouts of "Kweli boomayyay!!"
[Pharoahe Monch]
See these four emcees came to get down
Rearrange the rap game, change ya whole sound
Nigga YOU, got ta, understand the plot ta
Movin and groovin and always improvin alot-ta
I'll outfox the, average Porsche Boxster talk
Break the bank on some old Frank Sinatra (New York...)
Slash Chi-Town, slash Philly
Check the blast from Geneva
, you can get slapped silly
[Hook]
[Black Thought]
Okay... my sound drenches, each of the five senses
And hold the shock value of electrified fences
It's truth or consequences, ride wit us or against us
Is you a dedicated soldier, or you a princess, dog?
I'm in it to win it and not for the wealth
Got a crib with a Grammy
 and a gat on the shelf
Nan nigga competition, gotta battle myself
And me and Kweli on a mission, gettin Pharoahe for help
[Talib Kweli]
From natives walkin
 
the Trail of Tears
 
to players sippin Belvedere
We always comin well prepared, and all my dogs' smellin fear
PLUS, even my niggas from the Bay, they say you hella scared
Truth or consequences, and all senses be well-aware
Your style - under-developed there, hell if I care
What hardship you claim to see, but I can tell by your stare
Nigga you fugazi, sayin ya crew blazin
Like sayin Miss Cleo is a true Jamaican
, we makin
[Pharoahe Monch]
Guerrilla Monsoon rap, smell the fumes, get in tune wit it
When I attack your city, y'all gon' think Dr. Doom did it
Spit it like white trash in seed-spittin contests
With a vendetta that sent a betta letter bomb to Congress
I'm pissed - 
cumulus clouds of ominous
Words of the Thor,
 
the rawness that'll restore ya calmness
Unless, you wanna be leg and armless
That's parapaleg' for those who believe in bomb threats
[Hook]


[Jay-Z talking]
Talk to me man…
This ya boy Young Hova
, yo turn the muh'fuckin noise up
We’ll get right into the proceedings this evening
Headphones are distortin', bring it down a lil' bit
Okay, now we workin' wit it
The boy Face up in bassline, Face — Mob
Welcome to New York City
It’s ya boy Young Hov' chea
Kanye West on the track Chi-Town
, what’s goin' on now
Can I talk to y'all for a minute
Lemme talk to y'all for a minute
Just gimme a minute of ya time baby — I don’t want much
Lemme talk to these muh'fuckas, uhh
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Guess who's bizack
You still smellin' crack in my clothes
Don't make me have to relapse on these hoes
Take it back out to taxing them roads
When I was huggin' it,
 
niggas couldn't do nuttin' with it
Straight from the oven with it,
 
came from the dirt
I emerged from it all without a stain on my shirt
You can blame my old earth, for the shit she instilled in me
Still with me, pain plus work
Shit she made me milk this game for all it's worth
That's right, these niggas can't fuck with me
I'm calling guts every time
, drag my nuts every time
Homey, we make a great combination don't we
Me and the Face Mob, every time we face-off
Face it y'all, y'all niggas playing basic-ball
I'm on the block like I'm eight feet tall
Homey, I'm in the drop with the AC on
That's why the streets embrace me dawg, I'm so cool
[Hook]
Guess who's bizack
Back on the block with them O's
Face Mob, Mack Mittens and Hov'
Don't make me relapse
Back to the block with the four
Cause this street shit is all I know
[Verse 2: Scarface]
From the womb to the tomb, a hot pot a jar and a spoon
Trying to make me forty thousand and move
Motels
, star-studded, rock stars and goons
Plain clothes wanna run in my room
But nigga guess who's bizack, it's ya boy Face Mob
Started with an eightball,
 
gotta get this cake dawg
Give niggas a break, nah; you know how the game go
Fuck you think I slang for, to go against the grain, no
I'm out here in grind mode, wrapped up in the paper chase
I wanna fuck a fine ho and candy paint the 88
Don't got no wholesale, cause that ain't how I wanna run it
Here take these five stones and bring a nigga back a hundred
Gotta see my feet dude, you do shit a fiend do
The fire get too hot in the kitchen, I hit the streets fool
Money is an issue and that's on 
the fo' shizzle my nizzle
Ya block warm, and I come by with the fizzle
And make fo' sho' I get to work mines, a car at a time
We go to war and you ain't making a dime
Cause I got, shit to lose; a nigga out here paying his dues
My baby walking gotta get him some shoes
It's a new game brewin', lemme give ya the rules
Get outta line and I'mma give ya the blues
It's a new game doin', lemme give ya the rules
Get outta line and I'mma give ya the blues, whoa
[Verse 3: Beanie Sigel]
Guess who's bizack
The boy B. Mizack,
 a.k.a. 
Mr. Crack-A-Brick
Turn a whole one from a half a brick, look I mastered this
You can smell it once the plastic rips
A hot plate'll make ya swell up if ya gas get clipped
You can make ya chips swell up, ya don't hafta pitch
Play them corners like a safety, watch the traffic switch
Young'n never pump fake, and you'll get past the blitz
And keep ya whole hood on flip, like old box-spring
Pissy mattress shit, low old box of things
Strictly glassy shit,
 
I hug the block like quarter water
Shit I used to hug a corner like a old deuce and a quarter
Till like deuce in the morning, with the old heads
Slangin' loose quarters,
 
this Philly cat back at it
Still fuckin' with them crack addicts
Still bustin' with that black-matic
[Hook]


[Intro: Lil Wayne & Raw Dizzy]
Ri righ right over here, y'know when the verse come in
SQAD wit me man, SQAD
Its ya boy weezy baby, Fee Fee, Dizzy, Nut, Weezy
A huh whatchu' say, my bad Weezy Baby!
Get it right y'know, yuh i like it fa that boy, you ready to do it though
Holla at cha'
[Verse 1: Raw Dizzy]
Look look jus halla at me if ya need a verse
Shit i was taught ta aim hold squeeze an burst
An the game grows even worse shit y'know dizzy
Tha same old devan clutch, na roll wit me
Mah game so street it hurts im mo ignant
Ya daddy wants me ta twurp her soul system
Bang tha ho street an serve any old victim
Mah name in tha streets i kill any old witness
Bought tha chain, mah gold teef ta 8 million records
An change mah neck piece ta a shinny slave object
I pull up in a big body red object
Wit a big weapon an a clip that got alotta head objects
Leave alotta dead bodies
I stands by it, lay ya whole fuckn team down like that cop it
Make ya ho suck me clean, till i say stop it
Im dizzy dot raw-diculous tadays topic
[Interlude: Lil Wayne]
SQAD wit me man, yea, its ya boy Weezy baby, Wayne head Louie baby
I see y'all, Raj Smoove, Nut holla at them niggas
[Verse 2: Peanut Flame]
Guess whos bizazck of tha 'zant
Tha farmas is runna on tha corna i was born a hustla
An tha, chrome infront a, dome a bustas
Make niggas freeze like they bones done rust up
Play wit me an gon git gutta mah mown
An bought up a ho, i was known ta cut up before tha flo
Man shit, this back ta tha block fa me
Back ta tha block fa cheese
I never turn mah back ta tha block an leave
Im too cheap ta git ass if its not fa free
Stay cheifa dont pass if its not no weed
Too gutta dont rep Mazant, if ya not from tha street
We pack gats if its not for beef, its young mula
Young dude i tote a chrome ruger an he gon shoot ya
Look dawg dont u just discuss wat u gon do up
Its young money we got grown paper go an git cha loot up
[ Interlude: Lil Wayne]
SQAD wit me man, yea, its ya boy
I ain't gon say mah name this time  (Weezy baby!) y'all already know right
Yea yall already know it, tha whole crowd sayn
"You know it wouldn't be right"
[Verse 3: Lil Wayne]
Mami like ill how high is he
Real high mami high as can be
But lil papi still got scrill like bill Cosby
I am a legend a hero, y'all just my sons like Theo
You know tha kids say tha darnest thangs
But if ya shit flop back to sellin jello
The dope that come yellow
I am the youth of the ghetto
Knockin down the door say hello to my lil' friend
An that's just how I hit ya ho when you come at me
Like "can you you say hello to my lil friend"
I say hello to her she say goodbye to him
I mean we say goodbye to him, we wave bye from a pile a em
I pop mah, you cannot stop mah game
Tha smallest bo' in tha lane but you can't block a thang
Its tha boy young 
cock an
 wayne
Fee got me on them push ups, I feel like Rocky, man
Ah hell im way too charge, way too juiced man
The spoons on my k' done come loose
I'ma mothafuckin ani-mal, I ran a mile
Just to let y'all  niggas know now
That now I'm runnin this bitch
I come in this bitch wit one on my hip
A lump on my lip, a slump with my limp
Pump in my trench, 
a blunt in my crip
Pumpin my shit, huggin my bitch, my drugs in my kicks
Thats Weezy biatch! Baby
Hot blazin some say im amazin'
You should stop hatin' and start recuperating
Go get a coupe and race it, the dude be waiting
With some shit look I bought from the movie Matrix
I'm smooth and basic
I move like I'm cruisin' on my shoes I'm so cool I'm groovy baby
Weezy Baby, Weezy baby, Weezy Baby haha
[Outro: Lil Wayne]
Fuck y'all man this ya boy Weezy Baby
SQAD Up in ya back, SQAD the thang out man
SQAD the thang out


[Produced by Kanye West, Mike Dean, S1, Travi$ Scott and Ackeejuice Rockers]
[Intro]
I need to call it off
I need to, I need to make it known
'nother one, something gone
Capricorn
Dancing out on the lawn
Fancy like the things she likes
She lives her life
I'm living mine
[Hook: Popcaan]
All dem a gwaan dem a dem a dem a gwaan
Dem a gwaan gwaan gwaan, sof-sof-softer sof-softer
All dem a gwaan dem a dem a dem a gwaan
Dem a gwaan gwaan gwaan, softer than clay
[Verse 1]
Maybe it's cause she into Leos and I was into trios
Plus all the trips to Rio couldn't have helped
It's gettin' cold, better bring your ski clothes
Peekin' through the keyhole, the door locked by myself
And I'm feelin' it right now, cause it's the time when my heart got shot down
Blocka, blocka, blocka-blocka, blocka
Pour a little champagne, cranberry vodka
Feelin' lied to like parents never said you adopted
Your feelins like Zulu, then nothing is a Shaka
I hit her with Jamaican dick, I'm the new Shabba
She lookin' for her daddy, call me Big Poppa
On to the next saga
Focus on the future and let the crew knock her
Star Wars fur, yeah, I'm rockin' Chewbacca
The one Chief Rocka, number-one Chief Rocka
[Hook]
[Bridge: Popcaan]
None ah dem have the guts to rise it and spray
None ah dem have the guts to bust the SK
[Interlude: Kid Cudi]
Ohh, ohh, ohh
If you love me so much then why'd you let me go?
If you love me so much then why'd you let me go?
If you love me so much then why'd you let me go?
Let me go, let me go, let me go, let me go
If you love me so much then why'd you let me go?
Let me go, let me go
[Hook] + [Bridge]


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
It was all good just a week ago, niggas feel theyselves
And that 
 drop, niggas kill themselves
What are niggas gon' do, Hov? This a new crack on a new stove
I'm in the two-door, true that,
 
niggas telling me "You back!"
Like a nigga ever left up out this bitch, huh?
And if life's a bitch, bet she suck my dick, huh
And I bet she fucked the whole clique, huh
By the way nigga you should fucking quit nigga
Just forget it, you talk it, I live it
Like Eli, I did it,
 
joke's on you motherfucker, and I get it
No paper ho, but you can have some more of me
Or-a-gy or are we speaking metaphorically?
Historically I'm kicking bitches out like Pam, nigga
Going H·A·M nigga, me and Jigga
And a nigga still young, wanna have no kids
But I've been practicing with some actresses as bad as shit
Had a few white girls, asses flat as shit
But the head's so good, damn a nigga glad he hit
Got 'em jumping out the building, watch out below
A million out the door, I'm about to go H·A·M
[Hook]
Hard as a motherfucker
Let these niggas know who I am
I'm about to go H·A·M
Hard as a motherfucker
Let these niggas know who I am
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Fuck y'all mad at me for?
Y'all don't even know what I've been through
I played chicken with a Mack truck
Y'all muthafuckas woulda been moved
I swam waters with Great Whites
Y'all muthafuckas woulda been chewed
I hustled with vultures late nights
Y'all muthafuckas woulda been food
Fuck wrong with these dudes? Try to walk around in these shoes
See the shit I saw growing up
Then maybe you could take a peek at Bey’s boobs
Niggas fantasize about the shit that I do daily
Like these rappers rap about all the shit that I do really
I'm like "Really: half a billi nigga, really?" you got baby money
Keep it real with niggas, niggas ain't got my lady's money
Watch the throne, don't step on our robe
Bad enough we let you step on our globe
With my nephew die
, 
daddy dead
Nigga took the price on my uncle's head
Nobody called the cops as my uncle bled
So I feel like I would like to know my uncle's bread
Bow down, brother pay homage
Don't spill hate, all on my garments
Comme des Garcons, fuck yo fresh
Headshots nigga, fuck your vest
Fuck the pigs, no pork on my fork
Peace God, cause you know a nigga just went H·A·M
[Hook]
[Vivat rex in homine]
[Vivat rex in homine]
[Vivat rex in homine]
[Vivat rex in homine]


[Busta Rhymes]
Tell me, who you really really really think is more lyrical?
Cause everytime I go somebody got to see they medical
And everytime I come, I’m eating everything that's edible
And if you ain't already know, then who be more incredible?
They wanna call me crazy like I’m borderline clinical
Cause how I do it and I kill ‘em and I get incredible
And magically do it like this was another miracle
And if you don’t like it you can suck up on my genitals
Ta-ta-ta-tal ta-ta-ta-ta tals
Do it little bitch and get up off your little pedestal
And whenever you see me, you better salute the general
Cause I will break it down to every single little mineral
(Slurp, slurp, slurp, slurp)
Suck up on my testicle again when you see me counting money
Move the decimal again
Bout to cop another diamond out of Senegal again
Everybody saying that he's uncomparable again - okay
Killing everything I think we ’bout to have a funeral
A lot of you niggas be doing whatever you be doing
And I don’t even know what to call it, just sound terrible
Lower down the chorus, see we have another burial
These niggas that be rambling and babbling
I ain't hearing them
And everybody know that I be handling my
 
B-I
When it come to other rappers niggas know I be scarin’ them
Chop, chop, chop chop
Chop another beat up
Now you see the way I heat up, everybody wanna meet up
Just to come inside the building and witness another killing
Then I relax and then shop back and put my feet up
Every beat that I touch I’mma lace
I’mma never stop even with a muzzle on my face
When I finish with this sissy, I'mma leave with out a trace
Nigga kneel down better say grace
I go HAM!


[Intro: Jay Z]
Haters, haters; these niggas is haters
And I made myself so easy to love
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
How much they hate it? very!
Kiss girls like Katy Perry
I am never sprung, but I Spring 'er, Jerry
Don’t try this at home: results may vary
King like T.I., but in the Chi, Larry...
[Verse 2: Jay Z]
Hoover, Hova
Both are American Gangsters
You choose who's colder
Rappers get nasty in the booth but I'm grosser
I can’t even stomach myself, ulcer!
More realer cause I’m closer
Had girlies in girdles weighing more than they supposed to
Poser, no sir
My hustle, so Russell
I stretch work, yoga
You know I got it down, dog
Al Roker, I used to knock pounds off
It ain’t nothing for me to knock some nouns off
At these MC’s praying for my downfall
They just haters, I wave at you
I’m so player
I’ll never be done, I’m so rare
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
We killing the game, it's not fair
You muthafuckers stay right there
Cause we too high up in the air
We blasting off just like a laser
Nigga, pee-une, pee-une, pee-une
Get back, gimme room room room
DB9 like vroom, vroom, vroom
Young Hov, what we doin, doin, doin?
[Verse 4: Jay Z]
We ballin', bitches
Eating ya'll food leaving dishes
Why these niggas always talking Lear talk, 'Ye?
Why I never see em at the Clearport, 'Ye?
Why always hear they at the airport?
While I fly daily like I’m in the Air Force?
Therefore, please stop talking my ears off
Millionaire talk
You haters, you mad at me cause your paper
Need to get its motherfucking weight up
Hold up
Wait up, I ain’t done
Name one thing I ain’t done
It hurts when you say that I ain't the one
You haters
How do I gain your favor
I need to know cause I care
I need you to love me, I swear, look here!
See 'Ye is running the Chi like Gale Sayers
I'm running New York, I got the mayor on my pager
You can’t fade us, you haters
I need you, stay there
I breathe you like air
Yeah-yuh, yeah-yeah-yeah yeah-yuh


[Hook]
Don’t want nobody to die
Don’t want to have to ride but in this game
I guess that’s just the way, I guess that’s just the way
Have it your way
[Verse 1]
It’s gonna be slow singing, flower bringing
Gat clinging, bat swinging, bullets flyin’, niggas dyin’
Mom’s cryin
, faggots really don’t want it
Lead coming, blood gushin from ya arms, legs, head and stomach
I felt the hatred, cause when I turned around like the Matrix
Comin for me, an array of bullets headin dead for me
First the one, and then came the two and three and four
Five, six, seven, shots from a mac 11
Platinum producer killed by haters tonight on Channel 7
He do beats for 2Pac, now coming out the spring from Heaven
Ya know my piece is, hotter than grease is
With no wrong way to eat ya face like a Reese’s
Seem like the second I get some shine
Niggas quit they fuckin’ job so they can hate full time
So, gimme the gat, I hit em wit that
Cock back, blat blat
Let me tell you niggas something familiar
Broke niggas don’t want war, man I’ll kill ya
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Oh oh, I get it, this year, niggas don’t dance
But just rock bulletproof hats and steel pants
Now everybody got a gun in they hand, yeah bitch nigga run to ya man
Street sweeper aerials fuck where they land
Niggas close they eyes and don’t aim like My bitch when she pop champagne
Bottles, I tell you bout them damn models
They can’t cook for a lick, but they’ll lick a dick and swallow
Look I been living my life, Bullshittin’ when I write songs
Especially talkin’ bout havin’ ice on and I could barely keep my lights on
Niggas played me like Ty-Son, trying to take my light songs
Cuse they know I’d knock niggas the fuck out the box
Full Glocks, the fuck out the box, cocked
Who the fuck tryin to box right now?
I feel like, my whole city on my back
I feel like, next year, my whole city on the map
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I’m from, Chi town, where the raps the realest
The tracks 
gorilla
, we got the millas and we’ll be at ya scrilla
Close your doors, lock your windows
We be at them execs for them back end checks
Now, We on the court, and we got next up
Now, This summer we got benz, we got Lex truck
It’s kinda like trading places huh? I never plug
But I’m guilty by association, so gangstas show me love
For that track I did, yeah I know, the rest the album wack as shit
Ooooh, its Kanye to the with that platinum shit, ya punk bitch
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West and Jon Brion]
[Intro]
Wake up Mr. West - Mr. West - Mr. West...
Uh, yea, uh, yea, uh, yea
[Verse 1]
And I heard 'em say, nothing's ever promised tomorrow today
From the Chi, like Tim it's a harder way
So this is in the name of love like Robert say
Before you ask me to go get a job today
Can I at least get a raise of the minimum wage?
And I know that the government administer AIDS
So I guess we just pray like the minister say
Allāhu Akbar and
 
throw him some hot cars
Things we see on the screen that's not ours
But these niggas from the hood so these dreams not far
Where I'm from the dope boys is the rock stars
But they can't cop cars without seeing cop cars
I guess they want us all behind bars - I know it
[Hook: Kanye West & Adam Levine]
Uh, and I heard 'em say, nothing's ever promised tomorrow today
And I heard 'em say
Nothing's ever promised tomorrow today
But we'll a find a way
And nothing last forever but be honest babe
It hurts but it may be the only way
[Verse 2]
They say people in your life are seasons
And anything that happen is for a reason
And niggas gun clapping and keep to squeezing
And Gram' keep praying
 
and keep believing
In Jesus, and one day that you see him
'Til they walk in his footsteps and try to be him
The devil is alive I feel him breathin
Claiming money is the key, so keep on dreamin
And put them lottery tickets just to tease us
My Aunt Pam can't put them cigarettes down
So now my little cousin smokin them cigarettes now
His job try to claim that he too niggerish now
Is it cause his skin blacker than licorice now
I can't figure it out, I'm sick of it now
[Hook]
[Adam Levine]
With every worthless word we get more far away
And nothing's ever promised tomorrow today
And nothing last forever but be honest babe
It hurts but it may be the only way
[Outro]


[Hook]
I know that you know I 
can rip it, I hope that you listen
Blood burgundy soul, heart cold, surgery flowed
They operate like an emerg
ency (Listen to my heartbeat)
Harder, I know that you know I can rip it, I hope that you listen
[Verse 1]
Listen, I know my position, I'm young, your profection is distant
I run to it, it feels like it comes closer but misses
I been exposed to the most vicious, meanin' I know the difference
Between those that are dope or those that are Pulp Fiction
My words are weapons, they serve and protect
Behind verbs and a lesson I teach for the nerve that your testin'
I'll reach you from like thirty directions
Heat you like, the early detections like he questions the reaper to strike
Your number it came and crumbled your fame, into a ball
A umbrella dissolved into flames, you under my brain
You fell in my shower, lyrics my power
Your time is now, this is your hour to listen and it's windin' down
Your mission to make your way if your smart
He play his part, you can never take away his heart, listen
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
My spit is like a fix or the rinse cycle that gets
Under the dirt, that gets, under the skirt of your bitch
Under your nose, so get onto your toes
This is the reason you ballers is leavin' me all in control, my brother
You should play the back if you loud, I make you fade the black
If you wild so you should stay in back and be proud
I never take for granted my style cause him who handed it down
To me, Slim who demanded, take advantages now
I'm breezin' away from competitive ways
Every day I'm leavin' a race, I'm leadin' every step of the way
That I'm breathin' and the reason that the hunger's increased
I'm under my peeps speed and I'm underneath the numbers I seek
I speak if you never show me respect
No longer lookin' up to rappers, in fact I’m after the ones that I’ve met
[Hook]


[Hook]
In the night I hear them talk
The coldest story ever told
Somewhere far along this road
He lost his soul
To a woman so heartless
How could you be so heartless?
Oh, how could you be so heartless?
[Verse 1]
How could you be so
Cold as the winter wind when it breeze yo
Just remember that you talking to me though
You need to watch the way you talking to me yo
I mean, after all the things that we been through
I mean, after all the things we got into
Ayyo, I know of some things that you ain't told me
Ayyo, I did some things but that's the old me
And now you wanna get me back and you gon' show me
So you walk round like you don't know me
You got a new friend
Well I got homies
But in the end it's still so lonely
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
How could you be so Dr. Evil?
You bringing out a side of me that I don't know
I decided we weren't gonna speak, so
Why we up 3 AM on the phone?
Why do she be so mad at me for?
Homie, I don't know,
 
she's hot and cold
I won't stop, won't mess my groove up
Cause I already know how this thing go
You run and tell your friends that you're leaving me
They say that they don't see what you see in me
You wait a couple of months, then you gonna see
You'll never find nobody better than me
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Talk, and talk, and talk, and talk
Baby let's just knock it off
They don't know what we been through
They don't know about me and you
So I got something new to see
And you just gonna keep hating me
And we just gonna be enemies
I know you can't believe
I could just leave it wrong
And you can't make it right
I'm gonna take off tonight into the night
[Hook]


Heartless
How could you be so?
[Hook]
In the night I hear them talk
The coldest story ever told
Somewhere far along this road
He lost his soul
To a woman so heartless
Heartless [x2]
[Verse 1]
How could you be so
Cold as the winter wind when it breeze yo
Just remember that you talking to me though
You need to watch the way you talking to me yo
I mean, after all the things that we been through
I mean, after all the things we got into
Ayyo, I know of some things that you ain't told me
Ayyo, I did some things but that's the old me
And now you wanna give me back and you gonna show me
So you walk round like you don't know me
You got a new friend
Well I got homies
But in the end it's still so lonely
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
How could you be so Dr. Evil?
You bringing out a side of me that I don't know
I decided we weren't gonna speak, so
Why we up 3 AM on the phone?
Why do she be so mad at me for?
Homie, I don't know she's hot and cold
I won't stop, won't mess my groove up
Cause I already know how this thing go
You run and tell your friends that you're leaving me
They say that they don't see what you see in me
You wait a couple of months, then you gon’ see
You'll never find nobody, never find nobody better than me
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Talk, and talk, and talk, and talk Baby let's just knock it off
They don't know what we been through
They don't know about me and you
So I got something new to see
And you just gon’ keep hating me
And we just gon’ be enemies
I know you can't believe
I could just leave it wrong
And you can't make it right
I'm gon’ take off tonight into the night
[Hook]
How could you be so heartless? [4x]
How could you be so? [x2]
In the night I hear them talk
The coldest story ever told
Somewhere far along this road
He lost his soul
To a woman so, a woman so…
There is no Gucci I can buy
There is no Louis Vuitton to put on
There is no Y.S.L. that they could sell
To take my mind out of this hell
Or my heart out of this jail
There are no clothes that I could buy
That could turn, back in time
There is no vacation spot I could fly
That could turn back, a piece of real life
Real life, I ask you tonight
What does it feel like?
What does it feel like, I ask you tonight
What does it feel like?
To live a real life
I just wanna be a real boy
Pinocchio's story goes, to be a real boy
People say, you keep it too real boy
Pinocchio's story goes, to be a real boy
With a woman so heartless
So heartless
Is it my fault that I make you heartless?
Maybe I made you heartless, but regardless
That don’t give you the reason to act retarded
Yeah we fall, but you started
You started
No, no, no, nobody knows
Nobody knows
Did it have to go that far?
Did we have to take it that far?
You say things some time that you just can’t take back
Take back, take back
You’re gonna hit me one day, so take that, so take that
And that’s something you just can’t take back, take back, take back
Never do nothing you can’t take back, take back
Does this hurtful comment have a receipt?
Does this staggering piece of truth, that was never told, have an expiration date?
Or can I take that back?
Take that back
And I guess it’s in nighttime, I here ‘em talk
The coldest story ever told, the coldest story ever told
The coldest story ever told, the coldest story ever told
Ever told, never told
When I say the coldest story I mean the voices in my head
When I lay down in my bed
The voices in my head, when another woman is beside me in my bed
In the night I here ‘em talk
Coldest story ever told
Somewhere far along this road
He lost his soul
To a woman so heartless
How could you be so heartless?
Did I make you be heartless?
Did I make you be heartless?
50 look at me now
Singing on the ground
With my pink shirt on
Does this look gay to you?
Well, I don’t know what else to say to you
Look at me now
I’m on the ground
And my heart can still not be found
‘Cause I’ve looked all around
And my heart will never be found
I looked all around
And my heart’s nowhere to be found
Where is my heart right now?
With a woman so heartless
How could you be so?
How could you be so heartless?
How could you be so?
In the night I here ‘em talk
Coldest story ever told
Somewhere far along this road
I lost my soul
To somebody so heartless
How could you be so heartless?
How could you be so heartless?


[Hook: Kanye West]
In the night I hear 'em talk
The coldest story ever told
Somewhere far along this road
He lost his soul
To a woman so heartless
How could you be so heartless?
Oh, how could you be so heartless?
[Verse 1: Rick Ross]
Life is like a long love song so I vibe
Yellow brick road on 24's as I ride
Shorty is a winner, when I'm in her I get lost
Make her tremble like the middle of December on the frost
UGG boots in a coupe dual exhaust
As I fall deep in love, Mr. West check my pulse
Paintings on the wall, Basquiat is her favorite
Black Maybach way trilla than a slave ship
How can I not spazz, questions that I'm asked
Home owner at nineteen, yo I done learned fast
My first love cheated on me, she was heartless
She fucked the quarterback and seperated partners
I took my quarter back and played another cartridge
I took my locket back and threw it in the garbage
I sang a melody, it sounded nice as T-Pain's
Okay I'm playing follow me, just to peep game
We party hard and fall asleep on the airplane
If she flirty in the dirty, then she fair game
Checkerboard luggage as they holler all aboard!
Portishead in the iPod until I reach a snore
In the clouds of the lear, thinking of Shakir
Run the game like my nigga still was here
In the clouds of the lear thinking of Shakir
We run the game like my nigga here, Baous
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
How could you be so Dr. Evil?
You bringing out a side of me that I don't know
I decided we weren't gonna speak, so
Why we up 3 AM on the phone?
Why do she be so mad at me for?
Homie, I don't know, she's hot and cold
I won't stop, won't mess my groove up
Cause I already know how this thing go
You run and tell your friends that you're leaving me
They say that they don't see what you see in me
You wait a couple of months, then you gonna see
You'll never find nobody better than me
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Talk, and talk, and talk, and talk
Baby let's just knock it off
They don't know what we been through
They don't know bout me and you
So I got something new to see
And you just gonna keep hating me
And we just gonna be enemies
I know you can't believe
I could just leave it wrong
And you can't make it right
I'm gonna take off tonight into the night
[Hook: Kanye West]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
First the Fat Boys break up, now every day I wake up
Somebody got a problem with Hov'
What's up? You niggas all fed up cause I got a little cheddar
And my record's movin' out the store?
Young fucks spitting at me, young rappers getting at me
My nigga Big predicted this shit exactly
"Mo' Money, Mo' Problems"- gotta move carefully
Cause faggots hate when you getting money like athletes
Young'ns ice-grilling me, ohh - you not feeling me?
Fine; it cost you nothing - pay me no mind
Look, I'm on my grind, cousin, ain't got time for fronting
Sensitive thugs, y'all all need hugs
Damn little mans I'm just trying do me
If the record's two mil I'm just trying move three
Get a couple of chicks, get 'em to try to do E
Hopefully they'll ménage before I reach my garage
I don't want much, fuck I drove every car
Some nice cooked food, some nice clean draws
Bird-ass niggas I don't mean to ruffle y'all
I know you waiting in the wing but I'm doing my thing
Where's the love?
[Hook]
Ain't no love, in the heart of the city
I said where's the love?
Ain't no love, in the heart of town
[Verse 2]
And then the Fugees gonna break up, now everyday I wake up
Somebody got something to say
What's all the fucking fussing for? Because I'm grubbing more
And I pack heat like I'm the oven door?
Niggas pray and pray on my downfall
But every time I hit the ground I bounce up like roundball
Now I don't wanna have to kill soundboys
Don't wanna have to cock back the four pound bwoy
Look scrapper I got nephews to look after
I'm not looking at you dudes, I'm looking past ya
I thought I told you characters I'm not a rapper
Can I live? I told you in '96
That I came to take this shit and I did, handle my biz
I scramble like Randall with his
Cunningham
 
but the only thing running is numbers fam
Jigga held you down 6 summers; damn, where's the love?
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Then Richard Pryor gon' and burn up
And Ike and Tina Turner break up
Then I wake up to more bullshit
You knew me before records, you never disrespected me
Now that I'm successful you'll pull this shit
Nigga I'll step on your porch, step to your boss
Let's end the speculation, I'm talking to all of y'all
Males shouldn't be jealous that's a female trait
What you mad cause you push dimes and he sell weight?
Y'all don't know my expenses, I gotta buy bigger plates
Hehehe, and more baggies, why you all aggie?
Nigga respect the game, that should be it
What you eat don't make me shit - where's the love?
Where's the love?


There's gonna be some shit you might not understand
But, you may have to rewind this shit a few times
Heaven, heaven
Check it out
I know tomorrow ain't a promise
That's why I live one day at a time
So when it's my turn, there be no crime
I'm aware that when my number's called I'm punchin' the clock
No need for screamin' at me momma, I'm out
And plus I wasn't really happy here to start with, let that be told
My own homeboy was robbin' me, and that's 3 cold
I said '3', It's all intentional, cause 2 don't count
When your own blood is bitter and your homeboys bounce
Who the fuck is you gonna trust when your road dog is schemin?
And every other corner, you're passin' a different demon
And now the clouds is open, I'm rememberin' this
Your families your backbone, your friends ain't shit
Now I believe it when Rhonda was sayin "Back in the days..."
When our homeboys left, she the only ones stayed
For that very reason, I'm a try and give her the world
Found heaven in the form of a girl, everybody's sayin'
(Chorus)
My angel
My sunshine
That's the day that I found heaven in the form of a girl
My best friend
My good time
That's the day that I found heaven in the form of a girl
Listen to different scriptures, they teach on God
And if you ain't never met him, don't speak on God
I'm serious about religion, just ain't no song
I'm hearin' niggas makin' up scriptions, and playin' along
Probably sayin' I'm the hypocrit, for judgin' these folks
But you can tell he ain't a Christian, by the way that he spoke
I pray for everbody, hopin' that they hear that voice
The one that paralyzes you from head down, boy
When you're aware of your surroundings, yet you still can't move
Water shootin' outta your eyes you hear this dude
And the voice is much louder, than the voice that you
Thought was the voice of the holy spirit
Who changed your life, when you hear it?
And the next morn', you wake up and the world look lighter
The grass greener, and the sun brighter
I know the feelin' first hand, I witnessed the sights
When I allowed the Lord to come in my life
And it was like (heaven, heaven...)
But I'm a man, I ain't perfect
That's a poor excuse, that ain't workin'
I asked him for forgiveness, for every sin I commit
Hopefully he gonna let me stay on his list
And tryin' and get to heaven...
America the Beautiful, don't be so cold
How do you expectin' our seeds gonna grow?
When you trap us in the ghetto
And show love, to the other muthafuckers
While we right here starvin' at home
I'd cry, if I thought, that me sheddin' a tear might help
Then again, me sheddin' tears don't help
Wanna call up to the President, and see if he know help
Let him know you up shit creek yourself, we all sinners
Facin' the winter, with no socks, and no shoes
In a position, where we all gon' loose
Tell the penitentiaries, we gonna need more schools
Or what the fuck is we gonna do?
Sit around and let the world pass us by?
Waitin' on a message from the reverend
And he ain't but another man, tryin' to get to heaven...


[Hook]
Heaven only know, heaven only know
Heaven only know, heaven only know
Heaven only know, heaven only know
Heaven only know, heaven only know
[Verse 1]
Last night was the worst night
Beginning of the end
Or maybe it began before and here we go again
Things got so dramatic
Things got out of hand
We said words we couldn't imagine
I don't understand
[Pre-Chorus 1]
There you go with the same old thing
When things go wrong you always seem to blame me
Now I would like to find what secrets hide in your mind
Where the end will go?
Will I ever know?
Heaven only knows
[Hook]
Let's make this night the best night
It's time for second chance
Turn the beat up on repeat and we can start to dance
Sometimes when we're talking
Words get drowned out by the sound
Let's get back to touching and we'll get back on solid ground
[Pre-Chorus 2]
Let's hold hands
Like the young romance
Let's first kiss like the moment we first did
Can we make love like way back in the day, love?
We can lose control, baby don't say no
Heaven only knows
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Will you come back to me? Will you come back to me?
Will you come back to me? Will you come back to me?
Will you come back to me? Will you come back to me?
Will you come back to me? Will you come back to me?
Make this night the best night
It's time for second chance
Turn the beat up on repeat and we could start to dance
[Hook]


[Kanye West]
Heavy hitters fo' life, heavy hitters fo' life
You rappers think I give a fuck about the way that they spit
Wanna be on my album but don't want me on they shit
Everybody thought I was makin' a compilation
I was really makin' myself, they competition
Fresh off the plane from the All-Star game
Bone Thugs on TV so it's All-Star trains
Just picture man, no snitchin' man
Somethin' for the fiends fresh out the 
kitchen man
Last 9/11 I was poor on the ave
'Til I pluraled my math
Now it's Porsche 911 and I'm floorin' the gas
Gotta lotta problems, money's one that I not have no more
Uh, well Dame look at how everybody changed
Tell Jay that I'm 'bout to change the game
Tell B.I.G. that we about to get paid
All my niggas about to have it made
This makes everything else sound played
Goddamn Kanye (Kanye) Kanye!
Now hold up
Ain't nobody messin' with me dog
Now you say it (ain't nobody messin' with you at all)
I told dude "You can't even rap on my interlude"
Now does that make me as rude as Jude?
(When the album comin' out?) 
Man the peoples is askin'
Y'all don't model Adidas, just stick with the fashion
Y'all already got do' so just spit for the passion
The way ya rhyme give me Tribe Called Quest flashbacks
And let's not even bring up the tracks man
Nope, nope, let's not do that man
You eatin' up the game like Pac-Man
He got the whole world shakin' just like crack fiends
[Hook: Kanye West]
Heavy hitters fo' life, Roc-a-Fella is fo' life
Throw your diamonds up, throw your diamonds up
Throw your diamonds
Let the beat ride out for a minute
[GLC (Kanye West)]
Let's take it there, take it there man
It's not supposed to be ???
???
(GLC where you at homie?)
How many niggas you know put their life on the line and get signed
Did a few high crimes, almost got lifetime
After the sunshine you thinkin' it might count
How could I mic out, just look at my account
I used to work at the mall with nothin' at all
Seein' niggas that ball, that shit was depressin'
Keep my clothes in the cleaners, I hate with the pressin'
When I copied hounds it was my best investment
Dre got shot and it taught me a lesson
I'm stickin' niggas up and them rubbery masses
Mash like Batman minus the tight pants
Would hit your baby momma but her elbows is ashy
Fo' different blues, man your outfit is clashin'
You ain't got no muscles dude you weakling bastard
Man look at your haircut
Mm hmm, mm hmm, NAW, your hair sucks
How many niggas you know is really heavy hitters
'87 go getters, 
two hoes like John Ritter
Even did it on his crime picture and ye
And offers to sell and yell, uh
[Hook: Kanye West]
Heavy hitters fo' life, Roc-a-Fella is fo' life
Throw your diamonds up, throw your diamonds up
Throw your diamonds


[Produced By: Kanye West, Mike Caren, Mike Dean & No I.D.]
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I think I just fell in love with a porn star
Turn the camera on, she a born star
Turn the corners in a foreign car
Call the coroners, do the CPR
She gave that old nigga a ulcer
Her bittersweet taste made his gold teeth ache
Make her knees shake, make a priest faint
Make a nun cum,
 
make her cremate
Move downtown, cop a sweet space
Livin’ life like we won the sweepstakes, what!
We headin’ to hell for heaven’s sake
Well I’m-a levitate, make the devil wait, yeah!
[Hook]
Have you lost your mind?
Tell me when you think we crossed the line
No more drugs for me, pussy and religion is all I need
Grab my hand and baby we’ll live a hell of a life
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Never in your wildest dreams
Never in your wildest dreams
 in your wildest
You could hear the loudest screams
Comin’ from inside the screen, you a wild bitch
Tell me what I gotta do to be that guy
Said her price go down, she ever fuck a black guy
Or do anal, or do a gangbang
It’s kinda crazy that’s all considered the same thing
Well I guess a lotta niggas do gang bang
And if we run trains, we all in the same gang
Runaway slaves
 
all on a chain gang
Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
One day I’m gon' marry a porn star
We’ll have a big-ass crib and a long yard
We’ll have a mansion
 
and some fly maids
Nothin’ to hide, we both screwed the bridesmaids
She wanna role play, 'til I roll over
I’mma need a whole day, at least rolled doja
What party is we goin’ to on Oscar day
'specially if she can’t get that dress from Oscar de
La Renta, they wouldn’t rent her they couldn’t take the shame
Snatched the dress off her back and told her, “Get away”
How could you say they live they life wrong?
When you never fuck with the lights on
[Hook]
[Outro]
I think I fell in love with a porn star
And got married in a bathroom
Honeymoon on the dance floor
And got divorced by the end of the night
That’s one hell of a life


[Produced by Jon Brion & Kanye West]
[Hook]
(Hey Mama), I wanna scream so loud for you, cause I'm so proud of you
Let me tell you what I'm about to do, (Hey Mama)
I know I act a fool but, I promise you I'm goin back to school
I appreciate what you allowed for me
I just want you to be proud of me (Hey Mama)
[Verse 1]
I wanna tell the whole world about a friend of mine
This little light of mine and I'm finna let it shine
I'm finna take yall back to them better times
I'm finna talk about my mama if yall don't mind
I was three years old, when you and I moved to the Chi
Late December, harsh winter gave me a cold
You fixed me up something that was good for my soul
Famous homemade chicken soup, can I have another bowl?
You work late nights just to keep on the lights
Mommy got me training wheels so I could keep on my bike
And you would give anything in this world
Michael Jackson leather and a glove, but didn't give me a curl
And you never put no man over me
And I love you for that mommy can't you see?
Seven years old, caught you with tears in your eyes
Cuz a nigga cheatin, telling you lies, then I started to cry
As we knelt on the kitchen floor
I said mommy I'mma love you till you don't hurt no more
And when I'm older, you ain't gotta work no more
And I'mma get you that mansion that we couldn't afford
See you're, unbreakable, unmistakable
Highly capable, lady that's makin loot
A livin legend too, just look at what heaven do
Send us an angel, and I thank you (Hey Mama)
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Forrest Gump mama said, life is like a box of chocolates
My mama told me go to school, get your doctorate
Somethin to fall back on, you could profit with
But still supported me when I did the opposite
Now I feel like it's things I gotta get
Things I gotta do, just to prove to you
You was getting through,
 
can the choir please
Give me a verse of "You, Are So Beautiful To Me"
Can't you see, you're like a book of poetry
Maya Angelou, Nikki Giovanni,
 
turn one page and there's my mommy
Come on mommy just dance wit me, let the whole world see your dancing feet
Now when I say Hey, yall say Mama, now everybody answer me (Hey Mama)
[Hook]
[Bridge]
I guess it also depends though, if my ends low
Second they get up you gon get that Benzo
Tint the windows, 
ride around the city and let ya friends know
 (Hey Mama)
[Verse 3]
Tell your job you gotta fake em out
Since you brought me in this world, let me take you out
To a restaurant, upper echelon
Imma get you a jag, whatever else you want
Just tell me what kind of S-Type Donda West like?
Tell me the perfect color so I make it just right
It don't gotta be Mother's Day, or your birthday
For me to just call and say (Hey Mama)
[Hook (with variations)]


[Intro: woman (Kanye West)]
(first of all, this song right here got...)
You say what is it that you want?
(...a long ass intro)
You got everything that a woman could ever need in life
(you got everything)
You got a closet full of minks, Chinchilla
(you got beats from Kanye)
I got a bureau full of diamonds
(what else ya need?)
I can change four times a day if I want to
You even tryin' to eat lobster and drink champagne
Now you know that ain't your roots
For you strictly a collard green and cornbread bit
Now you know if anybody know it I know
But since you feel like that this evening
Sit down (know what?) and drink some champagne with me
And let me rap to you
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
You'll never catch me in that baby momma Benz again
I'm pushin' a G5
All the girls sayin' that his hair look Indian
And ain't never seen him and MCM
Now I don't like fake boobies but I'd do it to Lil'
Kim (yes I would)
We gon' roll this weed
We gon' play like Sonny Bono and hit these trees soon as we get alone
I'm doin' these beats for pro bono soon as we get to bone
Now she like a lotta clothes, I like to see her out of 'em
She got a lot exposed, pump up the volume
Pump up the volume, dance, dance
Don't give Kanye a chance
Cuz I'm a Gemini with two sides and two rides
Y'all talkin' business, I'm peepin' her thighs
Look, I'm tryin' to hit that back end 'fore I get that back in
Called Trina and "Do she need that beat tracked again?"
[Hook: Kanye West]
Cuz I came back for you
To show you that I'm workin' with a little somethin'
And we get the session pumpin'
See I came back for you
Cuz any rap chick that look half nice
I'm givin' 'em half price
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Back when Eve went with Steve before she had her weave
I was sendin' beat tapes like you wouldn't believe
Back when Foxy had a group with Nas and AZ
The way she looked on *Chyna Doll*, I woulda did them beats for free
Cause only recently I been gettin' a decent fee
The checks I got from D-Dot was t-teasin' me
I bought some earrings like Baby that may be fake
But at least it got girls callin' me 'Babycakes'
Now maybe Kay can get a ménage with Lazy K
And Lady May
, maybe hey
You're lookin' all thick and sweet
You need a nigga that can give you dick and beats
So go and get Angie and tell her
[Hook]
[Outro: Kanye]
Got a two for head sale
Send, send headshots first though
Will you beat tapes for who? Oh Trina?
Oh I'm be right there, I'm right there
I'll be the- I'll be in studio in five minutes
Yo yo, she said she want her ass look gushy wet
I told her all I need is my back end check
I told her to-
I ain't feelin' that verse


[Intro: Kanye West]
I want everybody to put they hands together for me
I want to talk about somebody real special tonight (whooooaaaa)
Ok, come on
[Hook: Kanye West]
Hey Mama, ahhhhhhhhhh, I wanna scream so loud for you
Cause I'm so proud of you, let me tell you what I'm about to do (hey Mama)
I know I act a fool, but I promise you I'm going back to school
I appreciate what you allowed for me, and I, I just want you to be proud of me (hey Mama)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I wanna tell the whole world about a friend of mine
This little light of mine, I'm feelin' let it shine
I'm feelin' take y'all back to them better times
I'm feelin' talk about my mama if y'all don't mind (hey Mama)
I was three years old when you and I move to the Chi
Late December, harsh winter gave me a cold
You fix me up something that was good for my soul
Famous home chicken soup, can I have another bowl (hey Mama)
You work late nights just to keep on the lights
Mommy got me training wheels so I can keep on my bike
And you would give me anything in this world
Michael Jackson leather and the glove, but didn't give me a curl (hey Mama)
And you never put no man over me, and I LOVE you for that Mommy can't you see?
Seven years old, caught you with tears in your eyes
Cause a nigga cheatin', tellin' you lies, then I started to cry (hey Mama)
As we knelt on the kitchen floor
I said, "Mommy, I'ma love you 'til you don't HURT no more!"
And when I'm older, you ain't gotta WORK no more
And I'ma get you that mansion that we couldn't afford (hey Mama)
See your unbreakable, unmistakable, highly capable, lady that's making loot
A living legend too, just look at what Heaven do, sent us an angel, and I thank you
[Hook: Tre Williams, (Kanye West)]
(Hey Mama), Oh your son done turned into a man living life
From the lesson straight from the palm of yo' hand (hey Mama)
And I know well that my words - they just ain't strong enough
If I had to pay for yo' love, my money ain't long enough!
[Verse 2: Papoose]
It's only 60 seconds in a minute, 24 hours in a day
The sun rises, the sun sets & goes away
"How this day went so fast?" is what I thought
Only 12 months in a year - life is short
Before my time is up, you know what I'ma do?
Take this time out to say, "I love you"
Cause right after you finished raisin' all ya kids
You turned right around & raised foster kids
We was the first ones in the 'hood with bunk beds
Popped me in my mouth for somethin' I shouldn't said
& when I caught that case, ya face turned red
You picked me up from the precinct - I was a knucklehead
You told me when I frowned up my face & pout
"I brought you in this world, boy, I'll take you out"
Daddy's stressin' you out? You tired of the drama?
Divorce that fool - I'll marry you, Mama
[Hook x2: Tre Williams, (Kanye West)]
(Hey Mama), Oh your son done turned into a man living life
From the lesson straight from the palm of yo' hand (hey Mama)
And I know well that my words - they just ain't strong enough
If I had to pay for yo' love, my money ain't long enough!


(Do or Die)
Yo Kanye Blow the Hook you a genius boy
[Hook]
Now when you hear this song you know it's on (baby girl)
When you hear this song you know it's on
When you hear this song you know it's on
I swear your lovin got me so high I'm gone
Me and you babygirl like best friends
Let me hit you when I get the notion
On I-55 you and I
Let's ride hit the motion
Some say she freaky freaky
Let me guess your lidro needa
I'm hittin through the back and curves
Inhale, exhale the herb
Lemme open up your mind to this concept
Then you take one step
Straight from the feelin of a wordsmith
Thats the herb shit
Up on my 22 spins
In my baby blue benz
Girls say dat boys ben actin up
But thats the way he is
You lookin good when you steppin out a centerfold
Tell me when I reach a pen to hold
Let me hit you wit this dime in the street game
Let a motherfucker go yeah you know it
So now let me sugarcoat it
It's like I'm on that tight herb
And when I pull t the curb it's like, it's like
Your my latest, and my geatest
My latest, my greatest
(Chorus)(x2)
When I'm layin in the back of my 745
With my lips on you
Spittin good game
With the hustler grain
Gettin brained like a hustler should
Hustler would
And you know when I hear the stuff
I'm still tryin to hear this love what that do
It's like that baby when I mix it up baby gurl you jus got me sprung
What that do
Oh yes she's one of the best
As I touch this is past tense I'm hurtin
Lurkin searchin for the virgin
But when my babygurl it's workin
Let me know whats that you smokin
From the hands as I stick my tounge in
Then from the back but she want an autograph
But still we sexin'
Open back up last time
As I spit a little dough in my mind
She jus like one of a kind
No c's no stand in her hind
Shes jus like me rappin a line
Perfect let me drop in a dime
I'm on a roll again
I'm bought to blow again
Your my latest, and my geatest
My latest, my greatest
[Hook]
Just keep on liftin me up yeah
(Choir)
Higher
(Do or Die and Kanye)
No need to take another puff
(Choir)
Higher
(Do or Die and Kanye)
Cause your love has got me high enough
No, No, No,No, No, No
(overlappig Choir and Do or die)
Just keep on Lifting me up yeah
(Choir)
Higher
(Do or Die and Kanye)
No need to take another puff
(Choir)
Higher
(Do or Die and Kanye)
Cause your love has got me high enough
No, No, No,No, No, No
Just keep on Lifting me up yeah


[Intro: The Dream]
Look at your money
Ooh momma, this could be you
On the right side of this drop
Ooh momma, throw it in reverse
I call that back it up and drop a
Baby, baby baby, baby baby
Baby, baby baby, baby baby
Baby, baby baby, baby baby
Baby, baby baby, baby baby
Ohh, girl I think that she like
I got that shit that make niggas want fight
I got that shit that make bitches act right
Make bitches act out of spite, aiight
Ohh momma, I got that bomb
I got that shit make your ass go run
My shit, not make niggas get guns
But the white girls say, "Where you get that cool beat from?"
[Hook: The Dream]
She love it (She love it)
Every beat of the drum, she sprung
She say I make her wanna touch it
She love it (She love it)
She make me wanna touch it
I love it (I love it)
We buzzin', yeah
Higher than a motherfucker
Higher than a motherfucker
Higher than a motherfucker, yeah
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
Yeah, I've been known to chase 'em
Known to replace 'em
Shoe game outta this world, I outer space 'em
Known to have a hundred and one, like Dalmatians
Maybe if she special enough, I'll glass case her
Get caught cheating and I gotta let you stick me up
Let you shop 'til you drop as a pick-me-up
Bergdorf bandit, 
Barney's for the burglary
But these bands lift the whole store like Hercules
Get raunchy in Givenchy, 
my palm reads
Passports, Pinot Noir in arm's reach
Paddle shiftin', push-button, no car keys
The pent houses are poolside with palm trees
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Mase]
Uh, one-two one-two guess who back again
Uh, Harlem in this-what? Yeezy let Manhattan in
Get my mic right, turn my levels up
Get the light right, turn my bezel up
You either bounce on it, go 'head throw your mouth on it
So many ghosts in my garage they think my house haunted
Long as my buckle say Hermes, the rumors I'm not concerned with
They wanna garnish my earnings before I send it I burn it
You know them people too convinced that my money's gettin' rinsed
Her Lou B's seven inch,
 
they TMZ me through my tint
I bumped into Loon he like, "Well, as-salamu alaykum"
You know I ain't Muslim my nigga, I'm about my bacon
The shot niggas takin' you'd think I'm rollin' 'round with Reagan
A Mexican landscaping couldn't rake in what I'm makin'
Think you blew me up with your bougie butt
But you ain't slow me up, I'm on the charts, you move me up
I'm like a drug overlord, my jewelry's overboard
It's hard to believe dollar sign e-even know the Lord
Already wrote it off, so just ignore the cost
So when I'm rollin' off I'm showin' off with no remorse
Shamone!
[Hook]
[Outro: James Fauntleroy]
Bitch hold smoke longer
Choke hold so strong, broke your armor
Now you're wide open right?
You ain't even smokin' right
Bitch hold the smoke
Cough hope, Harpo
Purple gotcha knocked out, now you know you're smokin' loud
You're higher than a motherfucker
High in this bitch, high as a motherfucker
I'm high and this bitch fine as a motherfucker
I'm high as a motherfucker
I hear sirens, she dying in this motherfucker
Moment of silence for this motherfucker
I'm just higher than a motherfucker
I'm higher than a motherfucker
I'm higher than a mother


[Hook]
Now that all the smoke is gone (lighter)
And the battle's finally won (give me a lighter)
Victory’s finally ours (Lighters up, lighters up)
History so loved, so long, so long, so long…
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
In search of victory, she keeps eluding me
If only we could be together momentarily
We could make love, and make history
Why won’t you visit me, until she visits me
I’ll be stuck with her sister, her name is defeat
She gives me agony, so much agony
She brings me so much pain, so much misery
Like missing your last shot and falling to your knees
As the crowd screams, for the other team
I've practiced so hard for this moment victory don’t leave
I know what this means, I’m stuck in this routine
Whole new different day, but the same old things
All I got is dreams, but nobody else could see
Nobody else believes, nobody else but me
Where are you victory? I need you desperately
Not just for the moment, to make history
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
So now I’m flirting with death
Hustling like a G, while victory wasn’t watching
Took chances repeatedly
As a teenage boy, before acne
Before I got proactive, I couldn’t face she
I just threw on my hoodie and headed to the streets
I swear I met success, we lived together shortly
A success is like lust, she's good for the touch
She's good for the moment, but she’s never enough
Everybody’s had her, she’s nothing like V
A success is all I got, unfortunately
But I’m burning down the block
Hopin' in and out of V's
But something tells me that there’s much more to see
Before I get killed, cause I can’t get robbed
So before me, success and death ménage
I gotta get lost, I gotta find V
We gotta be together to make history
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
Now victory is mine, she tastes so sweet
She’s my trophy wife, she's coming with me
We'll have a baby who stutters repeatedly
We'll name him history
He'll repeat after me
He’s my legacy, son of my hard work
Future of my past, he’ll explain who I be
Rank me among the greats
Either 1 2 or 3, if I ain’t number one
Then I failed you victory
Ain’t in it for the fame, that dies within weeks
Ain’t in it for the money, can’t take it when you leave
I wanna be remembered long after you grieve
Long after I’m gone, long after I breathe
I leave all I am, in the hands of history
That's my last will testimony
This is much more then a song
It’s a baby shower, I’ve been waiting for this hour
History, you're ours


[Produced by Arca, Kanye West, Mike Dean, and Noah Goldstein]
[Intro: Justin Vernon]
I can hold my liquor
But this man can’t handle his weed
Dark and lonely now
On Chicago, south of town
I'm on to Indiana
I heard it in the radio now
[Hook: Chief Keef]
I can't handle no liquor
But these bitches can't handle me
I can't control my niggas
And my niggas they can't control me
You say you know me, my nigga
But you really just know the old me
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Bitch I'm back out my coma
Wakin' up on your sofa
When I park my Range Rover
Slightly scratch your Corolla
Okay, I smashed your Corolla
I'm hangin' on a hangover
Five years we been over
Ask me why I came over
One more hit and I can own ya
One more fuck and I can own ya
One cold night in October
Pussy had me floatin'
Feel like Deepak Chopra
Pussy had me dead
Might call 2Pac over
Yeezy's all on your sofa
These the Red Octobers
Still ain't learn me no manners
You love me when I ain't sober
You love me when I'm hungover
Even when I blow doja
Then her auntie came over
Skinny bitch with no shoulders
Tellin' you that I'm bogus
Bitch you don't even know us
"Baby girl, he's a loner
Baby girl, he's a loner
Late-night organ donor
After that, he disown ya
After that he's just hopeless
Soul mates become soulless
When it's over it's over"
And bitch, I'm back out my coma
[Bridge: Justin Vernon]
Callin' up your uncle's place
Shit's all over the place
I don't hear your phone
Ohhh I wanna phone home
[Hook: Chief Keef]
[Outro: Justin Vernon and Kanye West]
I heard you need a new fad (a new girl)
I heard you need a new stack (a new girl)
I heard you need a new phone (a new girl)
I know your 'rents ain't be home (a new girl)
[Bridge]


[Produced by Hudson Mohawke & Kanye West]
[Intro]
*Kanye West harmonizes for 25 seconds*
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
I sold more dope than I sold records
You niggas sold records, never sold dope
So I ain’t hearing none of that street shit
Cause in my mind, you mothafuckas sold soap
Got rich selling hope to the hopeless
But I’m a thinker, methodic in my motives
I motivate to put my niggas into motors
No woman, no child,
 
no witness, no Jehovahs
Like Scarface but it's God's face in that mirror
We was made in his image, dialing and it's much clearer
Scoring from the heights but I wanted mine purer
Aryan, blonde hair, blue-eyed like the Führer
The judge and the jury, the jewellery mad froze
Water colors on my neck, fuck rhyming when you blinding niggas
We ain't the same color clarity of diamond, nigga
Nah, I ain't got nothing in common with yous
Pain in my heart, it's as black as my skin
They tipping the scale for these crackers to win
No reading, no writing, made us savage of men
They praying for jail but I mastered the pen
Descended from kings, we at it again
Just hand me the crown, I'm active again
Everything that it seems, hear my passion again
Was never my dream, the immaculate win
[Verse 2: Rick Ross]
I was pissing my shorts having rich nigga thoughts
Wish I had a pistol before all the friends I done fought
Over night I seen a nigga go get a Carrera
Two weeks later I had to be that boy pallbearer
Young king bury me inside a glass casket
Windex wipe me down for the life after
Crack dealer living like a hoop star
Black marble, white walls in my new spot
Four chains, big studs, a nigga too fly
Top down, tank top, I think I'm 2Pac
So I'm labeled the rebel, nigga get on my level
We were born to be kings, only major league teams
Chasing my paper, couldn't fathom my wealth
Built a school in Ethiopia, should enroll in myself
God body and mind, food for the soul
When you feeding on hate, you empty, my nigga, it shows
Follow the codes, ain’t no love for these hoes
If you slip and you fall I got you my nigga, hold on
If you right or you wrong, if you riding come on
By the end of this song, can't be hiding for long
I seen children get slaughtered, niggas' grandmothers assaulted
Throw a gang sign, dare you do something about it
Fuck copping them foams, when you copping the home
Cop a kilo and have them people on top of your home
[Outro: Rick Ross & Pusha T]
Follow the codes, ain't no love for these hoes
If you slipping you fall, I got you, my nigga, hold on
If you right or you wrong, if you riding come on
By the end of this song, I got you, my nigga, hold on


AUUURHHHHEE
EEUUUAAHHH
WOOIASHHHHH
WAAHHHHHHH
LAHSHSHHHHH
NAAAGHHH


[Produced by 88 Keys, Dave Tozer & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
Broken hearts rain on our heads 'til it floods
But I won’t run, I’m with you, that’s enough
Kiss me now so you won’t run
[Hook]
Out of breath underwater
Girl you can hold on longer
Girl you can hold on longer
Girl you can hold on longer
Long as you want
Oh, oh, oh, oh
[Verse 2]
Love is an ocean
Swimming and try not to drown
Right in the waves
Praying we don’t go down
In the undertow I’ll pull you out
[Hook]


[Kanye West]
Kanye to the...
Yeah, OK
I'm getting spins all day in L.A
We can go the D where Dwele dwell
D.C, P.G or ATL
Back in the Chi, mean my life like a magazine
Honey wanna know the details about my ebony
Well that's XXL
Far as the penthouse, yeah that's upscale
Mademoiselle got a hell of a Black tail
I'm feeling her
 
vibe
, 
her Body and Soul
I heard you stay in a metropolitan home
Well lets kill all the parlayin and offer you a cosmopolitan
Lets jet out the club, get some oxygen
Your friends claim I'm a player, you be lucky to keep me
But you know people gon' be talking 'bout us weekly
My car be in a Robb Re-p-o-r-t
 but what's more important to me
Is that you..
(Dwele)
Open your ears
Don't allow these words to be ignored by years
Fearing lullibies, containing the same old lies (same old lies)
Dealing just to deal is just a crime
Besides I know you wouldn't mind
Trying something new so..
(CHORUS)
Let's (Let's)Try (Try)
We can work it out
If you let love(love) guide (guide)
The way that you feel for me
Oh(Oh) Why(Why)
Let this opportunity pass (pass) by (by)
You should hold on
Please don't resist (don't resist)
Bless those harmonies to me, escape your lips (escape your lips)
There's no need to go home
Just to dance along (dance aloo-o-one)
I know you can't enjoy it on your own
Really I don't see nothing wrong
With you and I spending some time--
Also let me mention, (Oooh)
My only intention, (Oooh)
Is to feed you every single thing you hunger for---
In my heart I have to (Oooh)
And-- want to have you (Oooh)
So fulfilled that you will never need to ask for more--
[Consequence]
Now someone told my girl that she's a trophy wife
Sorta like Grant Hill and Kobe's wife
So when we at a club, and she be so polite
But when we back at home she be 
poltergeist
I mean provoking fights
Trying to poke me with knifes
And last time I tried to poke her she just told me goodnight
See her clothing be tight
She was pervert approved
So she gave up on life, now she don't wanna move
Hypnotized by the tube
So she stay with the clicker
In a cup full of liquor
Thinkin its makin her thicker
But its makin her slimmer
So our future is dimmer
I can't remember last time I took my baby to dinner
See I'm sayin' a sister who was freaky and ruthless
In a yorkshire terrier in the pocket with pooches
In a pocket with Gucc's
Was taking my lunch money
Just like the gooches
I'll tell you the truth miss


[Intro]
And you say Chi city!
Chi city! Chi city!
[Hook: Chris Martin]
I'm coming home again
Do you think about me now and then?
Do you think about me now and then?
Cause I'm coming home again
[Verse 1]
I met this girl when I was 3 years old
And what I loved most she had so much soul
She said "Excuse me lil homey, I know you don't know me
But, my name is Windy and I like to blow trees"
And from that point I never blow her off
Niggas come from out of town, I like to show her off
They like to act tough, she like to tow 'em off
And make 'em straighten up their hat cause she know they soft
And when I grew up she showed me how to go downtown
In the nighttime her face lit up,
 
so astounding
I told her in my heart is where she'll always be
She never messed with entertainers cause they always leave
She said it felt like they walked and drove on me
Knew I was gang affiliated, got on TV and told on me
I guess that's why last winter she got so cold on me
She said "'Ye, keep making that keep making that platinum and gold for me!"
[Hook]
I'm comin' home again
Do you think about me now and then?
Do you think about me now and then?
Cause I'm comin' home again
Comin' home again
Do you think about me now and then?
Do you think about me now and then?
Now I'm coming home again
Maybe we can start again
[Verse 2]
But if you really cared for her
Then you wouldn't have never hit the airport to follow your dreams
Sometimes I still talk to her, but when I talk to her
It always seems like she talking 'bout me
She said, "You left your kids, and they just like you
They want to rap and make soul beats just like you
But they just not you" and I just got through
Talking 'bout what niggas tryna do: just not new
Now everybody got the game figured out all wrong
I guess you never know what you got 'til it's gone
I guess that's why I'm here and 
I can't come back home
And guess when I heard that? When I was back home
Every interview I'm representing you, making you proud
Reach for the stars so if you fall, you land on a cloud
Jump in the crowd, spark your lighters, wave 'em around
If you don't know by now, I'm talking 'bout Chi-Town!
[Hook]
I'm comin' home again
Do you think about me now and then?
Do you think about me now and then?
Cause I'm comin' home again
Comin' home again
Maybe, do you remember when
Fireworks at Lake Michigan
Oh, now I'm coming home again
Comin' home again
Maybe you, do you remember when?
Fireworks at Lake Michigan
Oh, now I'm comin' home again
Maybe we can start again
[Outro: Chris Martin]
Loyee oyeee oh, loyee oyeee oh
Comin' home again
Loyee oyeee oh, loyee oyeee oh
Coming home again
Maybe we can start again


[Pusha T]
Malice found religion
, 
Tony found prison
I’m just tryna find my way out this fucking kitchen
A birdseye view got me channelling my vision
Turn one to two now the kilo’s got a sibling
Father knows best, wash my hands all is forgiven
We kicking up dust like the colosseum floors
Walls full of safes like they mausoleum doors
Pussy getting wet as she walking through my morgue
Grants, Jacksons no room for George
Yeh, the 
Fear of God
’s in you muthafuckers
This art imitate my life
You WorldStarHipHop fame based off imitation hype
Eliminate the fools gold and imitation ice
My music for your soul, inspiration for your life
Every dime made in his life more disastrous
Help my young bitch see her way through her Bachelor's
Sent my old bitch right back to get her Masters
Same graduation I was clapping in the rafters
The truth hurts everytime it’s revealed
What goes around comes around, this is lifes ferris wheel
Grab hold and reverse the steering wheel as I parrallel park
Kentucky derby on the grill
The fact that I’m free lets me know God is great
Ten year marathon of me selling concentrate
These rappers talk crowns but I’d rather talk fear
Villian like candyman, say my name and I’ll appear
No weapon formed against me shall prosper
Hakuna matata
, 
feet up sipping java
Strolling up the totem poll, what’s my only problem
Scrolling through my Rolodex,
 
who shall bear my toddler
So many hands raised as the band plays
I’m here now, watch how many nigga's plans change
[Kanye West]
Penitentiary chances, the devil dances
And eventually answers to the call of Autumn
All of them fallin’ for the love of ballin’
Got caught with 30 rocks, the cop look like Alec Baldwin
Inter century anthems based off inner city tantrums
Based off the way we was branded
Face it, Jerome get more time than Brandon
And at the airport they check all through my bag and tell me that it’s random
But we stay winning, this week has been a bad massage
I need a happy ending and a new beginning
And a new fitted and some job opportunities thats lucrative
And sold your dreams, you don’t know who did it
I treat the cash, the way the government treats aids
I won’t be satisfied til all my niggas get it
I need more drinks and more lights
Hot American Apparal girl in just tights
She told the director she tryna get in a school
Told to take them glasses off and get in the pool
It’s been a while since I watched the tube
Its like a crip said: “I got way too many blues for any more bad news”
I was looking at my resume feeling real fresh today
They rewrite history I don’t believe in yesterday
What’s a black beetle anyway, a fucking roach
I guess thats why they got me sitting in fucking coach
But God said I need a different approach
Cause people is looking at me like I’m sniffing coke
It ain't funny anymore try different jokes
Tell ‘em hug and kiss my ass, x and o
Kiss the ring while they at it, do my thing while I’m got it
Play strings for the dramatic
And end all of that wack shh
Act like I ain't had a belt in two classes
I ain't got it I’m going after whoever who has it
I’m coming after whoever who has it
You blowing up, that’s good, fantastic
That y’all, its like that ya’ll
I don’t really give a fuck about it at all
Cause the same people that tried to black ball me
Forgot about 2 things, my black balls
[Pusha T]
Uh, I let you into my diary to admire me
The making of this man, I let you see the higher me
The self righteous drug dealer dichotomy
I’m drawing from both sides, I’m Siamese
The tug of war opens the door,
 
entrada
Rip me apart and see what’s inside this pinata
And rolling kilos in gymstrada is one saga
One chapter of black magic, I’m Harold Potter
Feels like I’m doomed to dealing with women whom
Relationships with their fathers won’t allow us to bloom
And blossom,
 
I swear this Vegas nights was awesome
But adios I blow my own dice before I toss ‘em, loss ‘em
Some other muthafuckers double crossed ‘em
Tryna snatch my nigga back I blew a small fortune
Russell with the work, 
we was like the four horsemen
Rick Flair with the flame, I’m muthfucking Gorgeous, wooooooooo
As the gull wing doors lift, Karate Kid, crane kick, no Jaden Smtih
Whiter than the coke brush that they paint me with
Sunk leather seats softer than an angels kiss
But the devil red, tires double tread
I’m posting parks up. that gets me double head
Tight rope walking tryna keep a level head
The bright lights blind look what the devil did
Yeah
[Kanye West]
It’s hip hop, this is euphemism for a new religion
The soul music for the slaves that the youth is missing
This is more than just my road to redemption
Malcolm West had the whole nation standing to attention
As long as I’m in Polo’s they think they got me
But they would try to crack me if they ever saw a black me
I thought I chose a field where they couldn’t sack me
If a nigga ain't running shootin a jump shot running a track meet
But this pimp is, on the top of mount Olympus
Ready for the Worl’s game, this is my Olympics
We make ‘em say ho cause the game is so pimpish
Choke a southpark writer with a fishstick
And I assisted to get up offa this dick
And these drugs, fans can't resist it
Remember, remind of when they tried to have Ali enlisted
If I ever one of the greatest homie, I must have missed it!


[Verse 1: 30 Seconds To Mars (Kanye West)]
No matter how many times that you told me you wanted to leave
No matter how many breaths that you took, you still couldn't breathe
No matter how many nights that you lied wide awake to the sound of the poison rain
Where did you go? Where did you go? Where did you go?
(Heart beat, a heart beat, I need a heart beat, a heart beat)
[Hook: 30 Seconds To Mars]
Tell me would you kill to save a life?
Tell me would you kill to prove you're right?
Crash, crash, burn let it all burn
This hurricane is chasing us all underground
[Verse 2: 30 Seconds To Mars]
No matter how many deaths that I die, I will never forget
No matter how many lives I live, I will never regret
There's a fire inside this heart and a riot about to explode into flames
Where is your God? Where is your God? Where is your God?
 ...
[Bridge: 30 Seconds To Mars (Kanye West)]
Do you really want?
Do you really want me?
Do you really want me dead?
Or alive to torture for my sins?
Do you really want?
(Heart beat, a heart beat)
Do you really want me?
(I need a heart beat, a heart beat)
Do you really want me dead?
(You know I gotta leave, I can't stay
I know I gotta go, I can't stay)
Or alive to live a lie?
[Hook: 30 Seconds To Mars]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
You say you wrong, you wrong, I'm right, I'm right
You're wrong, we fight
Ok, I'm running from the light, running from the day to night
Oh, the quiet silence defines our misery
The riot inside keeps trying to visit me
No matter how we try, it's too much history
Too many bad notes playing in our symphony
So let it breathe, let it fly, let it go
Let it fall, let it crash, burn slow
And then you call upon God
Oh, you call upon God
[Hook: 30 Seconds To Mars]
This hurricane...
This hurricane...
This hurricane...
This hurricane...
This hurricane...
[Bridge: 30 Seconds To Mars]
Do you really want?
Do you really want me?
Do you really want me dead?
Or alive to torture for my sins?
Do you really want?
Do you really want me?
Do you really want me dead?
Or alive to live a lie?
Running away from the night, running away from the light
Running away to save you're life


[Produced by  Daft Punk, Hudson Mohawke, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Intro: Capleton]
Blazin, mi don't want dem
Mi need dem
Blazin
Suh mi tek har outta bugah red and put her in a tall skirt
And now she find out what life is really worth
No to X rated
Yo mi tek har outta bugah red and put her in a tall skirt
And now she find out what life is really worth
No to X rated
[Intro]
I am a god
I am a god
I am a god
[Hook]
I am a god
Hurry up with my damn massage
Hurry up with my damn ménage
Get the Porsche out the damn garage
I am a god
Even though I'm a man of God
My whole life in the hands of God
So y'all better quit playin' with God
[Verse 1]
Soon as they like you make 'em unlike you
Cause kissin' people ass is so unlike you
The only rapper compared to Michael
So here's a few hatin'-ass niggas who'll fight you
And here's a few snake-ass niggas to bite you
And I don't even wanna hear 'bout what niggas might do
Old niggas mentally still in high school
Since the tight jeans they never liked you
Pink-ass polos with a fuckin' backpack
But everybody know you brought real rap back
Nobody had swag, man, we the Rat Pack
Virgil, Pyrex, Don C snapback
Ibn diamond, Chi-town shinin'
Monop' in this bitch again, changed the climate
Hop in this bitch and get the same thing I'm in
Until the day I get struck by lightning
[Hook]
I am a god
So hurry up with my damn massage
In a French-ass restaurant
Hurry up with my damn croissants
I am a god
I am a god
I am a god
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
[Verse 2]
I just talked to Jesus
He said, "What up, Yeezus?"
I said, "Shit I'm chillin'
Tryna stack these millions"
I know he the most high
But I am a close high
Mi casa, su casa
That's our cosa nostra
I am a god
I am a god
I am a god
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHH!!
[Outro: Justin Vernon]
Ain't no way I'm givin' up. I'm a god


[Intro]
Bom bom bom bom bom
[Hook]
Last night I saw you in my dreams
Now I can't wait to go to sleep
Last night I saw you in my dreams
Now I can't wait to go to sleep
My mama, mama, mama
I wanna scream so loud for you, cause I'm so proud of you
And let me tell you what I'm about to do
I know I act a fool but, I promise you I'm goin back to school
And I appreciate what you allowed for me and I
[Verse 1]
I was three years old, when you and I moved to the Chi
Late December, harsh winter gave me a cold
You fixed me up something that was good for my soul
Famous homemade chicken soup, can I have another bowl?
You work late nights just to keep on the lights
Mommy got me training wheels so I could keep on my bike
And you would give anything in this world
Michael Jackson leather and a glove, but didn't give me no curl
And you never put no man over me
And I love you for that mommy can't you see?
Seven years old, caught you with tears in your eyes
Cuz somebody cheatin, telling you lies, then I started to cry
As we knelt on the kitchen floor
I said mommy I'mma love you till you don't hurt no more
And when I'm older, you ain't gotta work no more
And I'mma get you that mansion that we couldn't afford
See you're, unbreakable, unmistakable
Highly capable, lady that's makin loot
A living legend too, just look at what heaven do
Send us an angel, and I thank you Mama
I wanna scream so loud for you, cause I'm so proud of you
And let me tell you what I'm about to do
Mama, you know I love you so, and I'll never let you go
And I wrote this song just so you know that when you go
[Hook]
[Outro]
And this life is all a dream
And my real life starts when I go to sleep
My mama, mama, mama


[Intro]
Yeah, Yeah
I don't love you (Yeah)
I don't love you (You know who you are)
I don't love you no more
Yeah, nigga (Yeah, you)
Kanye West on the track, by the way
[Shyne]
Capital S
Capital H
Capital Y
Capital N
Capital E
[Keyshia]
There's this girl I know, so deep in love
Do almost anything to make him see she's the one
But he doesn't feel a girl like her, he's so so wrapped up
Cuz the average girl will give him anything that he wants
He's so caught up (He's so caught up)
He won't call her, he shows no love
So she decides
I changed my mind, Ooh
(I don't love you) I don't love you
(I don't love you no more)
No no no no no
Don't waste my time (Don't waste my time)
(I don't love you)
(I don't love you no more) No no
(Bring it back, bring it back, baby)
It's the funniest thing cuz I
Know how I feel inside
But you never felt the same as I
Never, never, never ooh, yeah, miss him so much
I betcha he don't even notice
He don't even realize, cuz he's
He's so caught up (So caught up)
He won't call her (Won't even call me)
He shows no love (oh)
So she decides
I changed my mind, I don't love you
(I don't love you) I don't love you
(I don't love you no more)
I don't love you no more
No no no no, no
Don't waste my time (don't waste my time)
(I don't love you) I don't love you
(I don't love you no more) Don't
I'm so over you
I got no more to give
I gave it all to you
And you couldn't handle it
And I don't care if you come back to me on your knees
I just don't love you no more
I changed my mind
[Shyne]
Speeding on the highway, gangsta lean
One sixteen, full steam, nah mean?
Bitches on my jock cuz my flow was hot
And they spot the watch filled with rocks from a block, huh
When the light hit, strictly fish skill
Fuck that light shit, a noise out the garage, double pipe shit
I'mma deal like hey yo ma, I know you likes this
Capital S
Capital H
Capital Y
Capital N
Capital E
Whatchu all know about G-force
SL's with automatic doors, ha
Flow sick, no shit, roll six, head crack
Walk the street with my chain out for frontin'
Fuck y'all niggas walking 'round like y'all sayin' somethin'
[Ad lib until fade]


[Produced By: DJ Mustard, Kanye West & DJ Dahi]
[Hook: Big Sean]
I don't fuck with you
You lil stupid ass bitch, I ain't fuckin' with you
You lil, you lil dumb ass bitch, I ain't fuckin' with you
I got a million trillion things I'd rather fuckin' do
Than to be fuckin' with you, lil stupid ass
I don't give a fuck, I don't give a fuck
I don't, I don't, I don't give a fuck
Bitch, I don't give a fuck about you, or anything that you do
Don't give a fuck about you, or anything that you do
[Verse 1: Big Sean]
I heard you got a new man, I see you takin' a pic
Then you post it up, thinkin' that its makin' me sick
I see you calling, I be makin' it quick
Imma answer that shit like: "I don't fuck with you"
Bitch I got no feelings to go
I swear I had it up to here, I got no ceilings to go
I mean for real, fuck how you feel
Fuck your two cents if it ain't goin' towards the bill, yeah
And everyday I wake up celebratin' shit, why?
Cause I just dodged a bullet from a crazy bitch
I stuck to my guns, that's what made me rich
That's what put me on, that's what got me here
That's what made me this
And everything that I do is my first name
These hoes chase bread, aw damn, she got a bird brain
Ain't nothin' but trill in me, aw man, silly me
I just bought a crib, three stories, that bitch a trilogy
And you know I'm rollin' weed that's fuckin' up the ozone
I got a bitch that text me, she ain't got no clothes on
And then another one text, then your ass next
And I'm gonna text your ass back like
[Hook: Big Sean]
[Verse 2: E-40]
Got a million things on my mind, executive deals online
Limited amount of time
, 
chasin' these dollar signs and you ain't on your grind
You liable to  find me up in the MGM casino in the D
Fuckin' off fetti I coulda put on property
From the Bay to the Murder Mitten, my niggas put murder missions
She choosin', that's her decision,
 
free my niggas in prison
On the phone with a bitch who can't do shit
For a pimp but make a nigga hella rich
Got a blunt in my dental, goin' HAM in a rental
On my way, to Sacramento, late night, Arsenio
I'm never sentimental, go hard or go homeless
Barely Harley, I'm chromeless,
 
you might end up domeless
I bet you she into me, her cheddar, she givin' me
I'll make a bitch stand outside forever like the Statue of Liberty
Rest in pimp, Pimp C, underground king of the South
I raise my Styrofoam up, and pour some drank in my mouth
Why you always coming around with bad news?
Say you want me to win, but hope I lose
Askin' if I rock with other niggas in the crew
But them niggas cool, it's just that
[Hook: Big Sean]
[Verse 3: Big Sean]
I got a new chick that I gotta thank God for
I got a new whip that I gotta thank the lot for
Yeah I got a lot but want a lot more
Yeah we in the buildin' but I'm tryna take it to the top floor
I swear I hear some new bullshit every day I'm wakin' up
It seems like nowadays everybody breakin' up
That shit can break you down if you lose a good girl
I guess you need a bad bitch to come around and make it up
I guess drama makes for the best content
Everything got a bad side, even a conscience
Now you're drinkin' 'til your unconscious
Feel me when you get a fine bitch
Just don't forget to read the fine print
Life got me meditatin' like I'm in the Himalayas
Keep it G with the L lit on me like the elevator
Yeah I know that karma's too real so I hope you doin' cool
But still stupid ass bitch I ain't fuckin' with you
Little stupid ass I ain't fuckin with
I ain't fuckin', I ain't I ain't fuckin' with you
I ain't fuckin' with you


[Produced by Kanye West, Noah Goldstein, The Twilite Tone and Young Chop]
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
Fraud niggas, y'all niggas, that's that shit I don't like
Your shit make believe, rapping 'bout my own life
Real names kill things, that's that shit I won't write
Cause my niggas still selling dope like they ain't on their third strikes
Camping out in that corridor, fuck you waiting on Jordans for?
I middle-man it for 23, just meet me somewhere around Baltimore
(Woo!) That's rare nigga, (Woo!) Ric Flair nigga
(Woo!) The power's in my hair nigga,
 
(Woo!) I give this beat the chair nigga
SoHo or Tribeca, three hoes: trifecta
Dope money, coke money,
 
Hublot, my watch better
My pen's better, you don't write, trendsetter, you clone-like
Pay homage or K's vomit – ungrateful niggas, I don't like
[Hook: Chief Keef]
A fuck nigga, that's that shit I don't like
A snitch nigga, that's that shit I don't like
A bitch nigga, that's that shit I don't like
Sneak disser, that's that shit I don't like
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
(This Chicago, nigga!)
They smile in my face is what I don't like
They steal your whole sound, that's a soundbite
The media crucify me like they did Christ
They want to find me not breathing like they found Mike
A girl'll run her mouth only out of spite
But I never hit a woman never in my life
I was in too deep like Mekhi Phife'
In that pussy so deep I could have drowned twice
Rose gold Jesus piece with the brown ice
Eating good, vegetarian with the brown rice
Girls kissing girls, cause it's hot, right?
But unless they use a strap-on then they not dykes
They ain't about that life, they ain't about that life
We hanging out that window it's about to be a Suge night
Free Bump J, real nigga for life
Shoutout to Derrick Rose, man that nigga nice
Shout out to L-E-P,
 
Jay Boogie right?
Chief Keef, King Louie, this is Chi, right? right?!
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Chief Keef]
(Young Chop on the beat)
Fake Gucci, that's that shit I don't like
Smoking on this dope, higher than a kite
This bitch gon' love me now, she gon' let me pipe
Screaming Sosa, that's that nigga that I like
I don't want relations, I just want one night
Cause a thirsty bitch, that's the shit that I don't like
I got tats up on my arm, cause this shit is life
And I stunt so much in clothes, cause I'm living life
I come up on the scene, and I'm stealing light
Bitch I'm high off life, got me feeling right
Bitch I'm Chief Keef, fuck who don't like
And bitch we GBE,
 
we just go on sight
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Big Sean]
We are not one and the same, nigga I'm fucking insane, fuck is you saying?
Yo ass been doing the same, shit, not doing what you saying
Dang, I told yo old bitch she was fucking a lame, turn one ho to a train
Blaow, blang, my niggas holding that pain,
 
I just hope you been praying
Bang bang,
 
riding for my niggas and that's for life
High class, I'm just surrounded by these lowlifes
And I run this bitch like it's no lights,
 
going hard the whole night
Cause I ain't going back to my old life, I promise
[Hook]
[Verse 5: Jadakiss]
I done sold purple,
 
I done sold white
Running outta work,
 
that's that shit I don't like
She never let me hit it, she gave me dome twice
She blowing up my phone, that's that bitch I don't like
Nah, jean jacket with the sleeves cut
Put the pressure on 'em just when they think that I eased up
Thirty for the Cuban, 'nother 30 for the Jesus
Believe in ourselves when nobody else believed us, suckas
[Hook]


[Verse 1: T.I.]
I don’t like sneak dissing and no weak niggas
I’m paid don’t like cheap niggas
On the west side with chief keef nigga
That strong pat, we chief nigga
And we on og street nigga
You try me, we creep with a flip I pull up
On your block and we skeep niggas
Fuck boy be on up shit
That’s why I don’t need greek niggas
Say what’s up and get gone, get shot at
You get blown
But all the dough that I’m get
Got the bitches on my job
Man I’m serious nigga no kid
I be grabbing hold of that guap
Catch me right now on the west side
Of Chi-town, go hunned
In the a town, I’m the king
Best bow down, one hunned
One hunned, you don’t nigga
We gonna bitee
[Verse 2: Trey Songz]
These hoes be actin up
These niggas tryna hold me back
These dollars keep stackin up
And he keep bitches where he be at
I'm throwing singles, fuckin double yah make it triple
She looking lost she looking hurt we bustin like two pistols
I'm so the shit I was thinking I should make some tissue
If thats yo bitch when im done nigga just take her with you
Fuck niggas and they own motors
Fall back and get no closer
20 bottles comming to my table right now and them hoes doin what they all pose to
Dont stop pop that, pop that pussy like an automatic
My section jumpin like we got that bitch up on a matress
Her ass stretchin out dem jeans ahhh so elastic
I'm dope boy fresh like a nigga just came out da package
Fuck it doe, big bills buffalo
Niggas think dey fuckin raw but they all rubber though
Soft niggas suck a ho
I Lost niggas wear you go
Cause trigga one more liquor
Shot goes out to the poor niggas
And it ain't no diss man im on my shit member when I use to get like four figures
I'm so absorbed to what you adore
Real niggas see through my pores
Bad bitch when I'm in that Porsche
Call 9 1 1 cause the crime been done
Seen a big dick and she climbed on one
Niggas throw shades and I shine on them
Beast and I rhyme part time on them
Pour champagne and wine on them
Girls wanna have a good time on him
Brain lose yo mind on him
She suck the dick good and she don't bite
[Hook: Chief Keef]
A fuck nigga, that’s that shit I don’t like
A snitch nigga, that’s that shit I don’t like
A bitch nigga, that’s that shit I don’t like
Sneak disser, that’s that shit I don’t like
Don’t like, like, don’t like, like
A snitch nigga, that’s that shit I don’t like
[Verse 3: Game]
Stepped off of that G6
Hit the club on that G shit
You see the belt, that's a G bitch
And I'm 'bout to kill Chief Keef shit
Just killed my nigga Meek shit
Then I killed my nigga French shit
Got a french bitch, no friendship
And she giving my dick a french kiss
A fuck nigga that's that shit I don't like
Arm hanging out the window
Of that black Ghost with them chrome pipes
Tell them niggas it's gon' be a long night
Bitches wanna chill, we gon' need some more ice
Shout out to John Wall, man that nigga nice
Club leaning nigga, we gon' need some more Sprite
Real nigga in these Ray-Bans
Fuck the judge we don't take stands
Tape Feds, we don't shake hands
Put a gap in your mouth, Strahan
Hundred racks in these cargos
Push the button, these cars go
Six cradle that 'Lago
Six spades, black card ho
Got homies out in Chicago
With that full clip on that bullshit
Dang nigga, that's Rozay
Moving packs on 'em in MJs
I got a thick bitch with a thin waist
Got a condo where something slim stay
Got a Rolex Presidente
Got black diamonds, Kunta Kinte
Hot boy like Turk and them
Hot wheels, we swerving them
Next year we getting Deron Williams
Gon' do Lebron like Dirk and them
[Verse 4: Chris Brown]
A fuck nigga, that's that shit I don't like
They throwin' bottles I'm throwin' models, just cause I give a bitch long pipe
Doing shows on soccer fields that's dome right?
I be singing he be singing so its on fight
But hold up I didn't give a nigga no green light
This head up, my bread up, one on one, what you scared bruh?
Matter fact, take care bruh you a pussy nigga, pay up
My nigga Tunechi, yeah that nigga nice, shout out to Nicki man that ass tight
Them eyebrows? Man them shits is yikes
OVO, you overdosed screamin' YOLO no I live TWICE ooops hahahaha
[Hook]
[Verse 5: Kanye West]
They smile in my face is what I don’t like
They steal your whole sound that’s a soundbite
The media crucify me like they did Christ
They want to find me not breathin’ like they found Mike
A girl’ll run her mouth only out of spite
But I never hit a woman never in my life
I was in too deep like Mekhi Phifer
In that pussy so deep I could have drowned twice
Rose gold Jesus piece with the brown ice
Eatin’ good, vegetarian with the brown rice
Girls kissin’ girls, cause it’s hot right?
But unless they use a strap-on then they not dykes
They ain’t about that life, they ain’t about that life
We hangin’ out that window it’s about to be a Suge night
Free Bump J, real nigga for life
Shoutout to Derrick Rose, man that nigga nice
Shout out to L-E-P, J Boogie right?
Chief Keef, King Louis, this is Chi, right?
[Hook]
[Verse 6: Chief Keef]
Fake Gucci, that’s that shit I don’t like
Smokin’ on this dope, higher than a kite
This bitch gon’ love me now, she gon’ let me pipe
Screaming Sosa, that’s that nigga that I like
I don’t want relations, I just want one night
Cause a thirsty bitch, that’s the shit that I don’t like
I got tats up on my arm, cause this shit is life
And I spend on a bunch of clothes, cause I’m livin’ life
I come up on the scene, and I’m stealin’ light
Bitch I’m high off life, got me feelin’ right
Bitch I’m Chief Keef, fuck who don’t like
And bitch we GBE, we just gon’ sight
[Hook]
[Verse 7: Big Sean]
We are not one and the same, nigga I’m fuckin’ insane, fuck is you sayin’?
Yo ass been doin’ the same, shit, not doin’ what you sayin’
Dang, I told yo old bitch she was fuckin’ a lame, turn one ho to a train
Blow, blang, my niggas holdin’ that pain, I just hope you been praying
Bang bang, ridin’ for my niggas and that’s for life
High class I’m just surrounded by these low-lives
And I run this bitch like it’s no lights
Goin’ hard the whole night cause I ain’t goin’ back to my old life, I promise
[Hook]
[Verse 8: Jadakiss]
I done sold purple, I done sold white
Running outta work, that’s that shit I don’t like
She never let me hit it, she gave me dome twice
She blowin’ up my phone, that’s that bitch I don’t like
Nah, jean jacket with the sleeves cut
Put the pressure on ‘em just when they think that I eased up
Thirty for the Cuban, ‘nother 30 for the Jesus
Believe in ourselves when nobody else believed us, suckers
[Hook]


Boy I said it once before
But baby I’m just making sure
I know that there is nothing more than you
So they can take it all away
I don’t need it anyway
I just want another day with you
Some people just don’t know what they have
But boy I’m so glad I got you
Some people say they search all their life
But boy it’s so nice I found you
Some people want it all
I don’t want nothing at all
If it ain’t you 
baby
If I ain’t got you baby
Some people want diamond rings
Some just want everything
It means nothing nothing
If I ain’t got you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you, you you you, you you you
So people looking forward to
The things they can’t afford to do
All I’m looking forward to is you
You could never sacrifice
Boy you know I’d pay the price
I would even give a life for you
Some people just don’t know what they have
But boy I’m so glad I got you
Some people say they search all their life
But boy it’s so nice I found you
Some people want it all
I don’t want nothing at all
If it ain’t you baby
If I ain’t got you baby
Some people want diamond rings
Some just want everything
It means nothing nothing
If I ain’t got you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you, you you you, you you you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you, you you you, you you you
[SPOKEN:]
Uh, yeah
That’s how I feel
I wanna say more but
The last record I did with Kanye
Talked your ear off so (laughs)
All I wanna say is
Baby, baby
Nothing in this whole wide world
Don’t mean a thing
If I ain’t got you with me baby
Some people want it all
I don’t want nothing at all
If it ain’t you baby
If I ain’t got you baby
Some people want diamond rings
Some just want everything
It means nothing nothing
If I ain’t got you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you
Ooh, you you you, you you you, you you yo


[Intro: Kanye West]
Yo Jin! We good wit this one, yeah
[Intro 2: Jin]
Good looking Kanye, Ruff Ryder, Roc-A-Fella collabo
You see, we're the next generation in this rap game
So it's only right we got down like this
[Refrain x2: Kanye West]
I got a love that's better than - you ever was
You've never been - no good for me
I guess I was - just way too hood for you to be with
[Verse 1: Jin]
Yo I was doing a show with Kanye in the West
Mid that is
, 
so basically the Chi and M.I. is up in the mix
We in the game now, it makes perfect sense
The kid that 'Dropped Outta College', the other never went
We take turns doing our one, two's and yes yes y'alls
Look at shorty with my name, tatted on her breast y'all
Mr. West, what do you think is the best?
(Kanye: Take em backstage, get aquainted that's what I suggest dawg)
When it comes to spittin G, I'm one of the best y'all
She look goods, smell clean and she had fresh draws
Naw, that's too good to be
Usually them type of chicks ain't good for me, no
[Refrain]
[Verse 2: Jin]
I got a - way with words, I use words in ways
I convince birds to come out they cage and play
Polly want a Gucci Parka, ma what did you say
Polly might get a cracker ain't no trickin today, hey
But anyway though, she got it on smash like mashed potatoes
High class with a ass that'll smash on J. Lo
Lay low, got Play-Doh, 
stash the payroll
Ain't no - credit card, spendin cash on Rodeo
And me? I'm at the Slauson Swap Meet
Lookin for a pair of Air One's and white tee's
She want champagne, I got Sisco and Kool-Aid
Why go to the movies? let's watch the bootleg
[Refrain]
[Verse 3: Jin]
Girl I don't wear Prada, never met Gucci
Or wore Versake [Versace], y'all is too boughi
We all know Kanye is Mr. Louis Vuitton
But if I see a L and a V, I'd think that it's on
That's what my old chick used to clash with me
(Jin, why'd you get this fake Louis bag for me)
Actually, you should be happy I purchased that
I take this as a sign, you don't want the matching hat
Huh, I'm too gutter, you more Parkay with yours
I'm more I can't believe it's not butter
What the - other - suckas do for love is a damn shame
I got a new significant other cause plans change
[Refrain]


*3 Minute Pause*
[Intro: Kanye West]
1985 white Lamborghini Countach, 2 of 'em
[Hook: Kanye]
I need a slow motion video right now
Cause I'm movin' in slow motion, slow motion
Feelin' like Hype Williams shootin' a nigga
Shootin' a nigga, hey, hey, hey
I need a slow motion video right now, ay, ay
[Verse 1: Kanye]
Damn baby, pussy can't be your only hustle
Unless you bad as Naomi Russell
I mean a lot of niggas got money
So basically, Russell ain't the only Russell
Russell Brand, Russell Crowe
Zero Zero Zero Zero, a whole lot of 0's
What you after, actor money?
You in line behind currency, yeah you after money
Bullet proof condom when I'm in these hoes
Got staples on my dick (why) fuckin' centerfolds
And I swear to God they so cold
Got a nigga in Miami wearing winter clothes
I got my fur on feelin' like Jerome
She got her fur too,
 
we got our his and her on
Don't look at the jewelry, or get your brrr on
Too close, you comatose
 
so dope you overdose
Get back, you overclose
Oh no, the hood was strugglin'
But then I blessed them with that Polo
Niggas was making music and then my first solo
Collo Drolo,
 
sponsored by Manolo
She got Zeppi Notos ready for some photos
Yeah and I'm cold bitch, please try to keep the door closed
Lanvin thousand dollar tee with no logos
Let me show you what I see when my eyes closed
[Bridge: Kanye & Jay-Z]
Take it how you want til a nigga dead
Til then I'm the illest motherfucker alive
Whole world aiming at a nigga head
Because I'm the illest motherfucker alive
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
King Hov, I'm exactly what the fuck you think
11 in a row, Bill Russell rings
Michael Jordan swag, yall think Michael Jordan bad
Nigga I got 5 more rings than Michael Jordan had
Elvis has left the building now I'm on the Beatles ass
Niggas hear 
, yeah it's like the Beatles back
Bey Bey my Yoko Ono, Rih Rih complete the family
Imagine how that's goin look front row at the Grammys
Fuck your awards like Eddie Murphy's couch
The Roc is in the building we should have stayed in the house
I don't even know what we doing here
Seems to me a complete waste of gear
Just a fuckin' waste of time, a complete waste of bottles
Niggas fashion is weak, they be wastin' all the models
Got the oversized Rollie let me show thee how to do it
When I say it then you see, it ain't only in the music
Basquiats, Warhols serving as my muses
My house like a museum so I see 'em when I'm peeing
Usually you have this much taste you European
That's the end of that way of thinking, nigga never again
Know when to leave when the heat is coming I learned that
This is where DeNiro would be if he ain't turn back
Fuck Sosa,
 
this Hova this is real life
This is what the ending of 
 should feel like
[Hook: Kanye]
I need a slow motion video right now
Cause I'm moving in slow motion, slow motion
Feelin' like Hype Williams shooting a nigga, shooting a nigga, hey, hey, hey
I need a slow motion video right now, ay, ay
[Outro: Kid Cudi]
I'm moving in slow motion, slow motion


One glad morning
When this life is over
I'll fly away
To a land where
Joy shall never end
I'll fly away
Oh I'll fly away oh glory
I'll fly away
When I die Hallelujah bye and bye
I'll fly away


Well the song says no one man should have all that power right?
There’s definitively been times I let
Let power, get the best of me…
And let the world take the rest of me
I look in the mirror and say
“God, is this, is this my destiny?
Is this what I’ve done
After all the years of you blessin’ me?”
Well maybe this is just a moment
A moment of you all testin’ me
To see if I can still act professionally
To keep me at bay
Like the Chesapeake
Guess it’s me
Just a ‘G
From the 
C.I.,
Honest… And why?
Why would you give me that Power?
Knowing I was just an artist
Knowing exactly where my heart is
And I will only work the hardest
And sometimes, put art, before being the smartest
And sometimes act retarded
Just look at what I started
And they wanted me to be dearly departed
Die, nigga die, and I had no reply
And I still looked her in the eyes
And said that I could touch the sky
And after all the drama
I wonder where I would be if I still
Had my Momma, Common
And everybody I was promising around me
You know how niggas from Chi town be, sometimes we wild
Act like a child
Get fouled
Stay in style
As of now …?
... flows through the veins of a modern day
Pharaoh. In American Apparel
Standing down the barrel of the media
For the man that face never made it in the encyclopedia
His story, His glory
…and they re-write history right in front of us - in front of us
But what happens?
When one of us is on the other side of that T.V. screen?
You know what I’m sayin’. Real niggas you know what I mean
- you know what I mean
- you know what I mean
- you know what I mean
Or at least that’s what I thought
But when they sayin’ “Hey that’s what the real nigga do, right?”
Naw not right, that’s just mean, that’s just me that’s not, right
Now how long did it take me to realize?
And open up my ****ing eyes!
That this **** is just a disguise
All the fame!
And the power!
And the hour!
In the showers!
Of the diamonds!
And the jewels!
And the gold!
Everybody say you cold!
Everybody screaming at motha ****ing shows
And you know what?
You wake up in the morning
And in awe you’re a real person
And worse you got the …?...
Got a little bit harder
A little bit more insignificant
You was the terrific ****
Buying expensive ****
Last year worked for Louis or Ford
Too much for me to even record
The only thing I had to do was get my heart out
The greatest blessing in the world is the fact you let me get my art out
The fact that you accepted me and didn’t neglect me
Even when I was a …?...
Even when I went to these meetings straight 
dolo
I had to go solo. I used to have a group
That group used to wear Adidas and
…?... and then I got stupid and left them niggas
And said I’m better than ya’ll when it was true
Now when I finally got the power man what the **** did I do?
And I’m so sorry to how every one of ya’ll had to fight for my name
Every one of ya’ll a year ago, that all waited for this change
Everyone who said “Kanye is that nigga quit talkin’ names”
And I know! I am the one to blame
And the people that I-I-I, let down
I want to tell you right here - right here, right now
That I’m a new man that understands why people abusing the power
*Crowd erupts drowning out the lyrics*
And make more music for the world to love!
And there’s so many people I could thank there’s my Mom and God and above
So all ya’ll, and everybody throw your hands in the sky!
Everyone touch the sky before the day never dies! dies! dies!
No one man should have all that power!
They say no one man should have all that power!
They say no one man should have all that power!
They say no one man should have all that power!


[West]
Niggas old as hell, trying to get they rapping on
In the club looking like a fucking chaperone
I'm in the club, posted up, 
"Guess Who's Back"
 is on
If not that then the Just Blaze track is on
It's all Roc the world
, 
we all got your girl
Caught your girl
, 
never gave back your girl
Watch the rap unfurl, after Beanie Mack confirm
Kanye best producer-rapper in the world
Now I have beans
, I'm going after MCs
Show 'em that this rap game made for me
Made for us, 
they bite
 and 
they plagiar-us
They spit the style for the niggas that made it up
That's like me buying soul beats for my album
Dog, I had to eat, I sold beats from my album
Now I got heat, 
I hold beats for my album
February 18th
, reach for my album
Niggas forcing me to keep the heat up
Black strap, white handle, I got 
Jungle Fever
Black Benz, white truck, and one 2-seater
I'm in the game getting change like a parking meter
And since Takeover
It feel like the whole hood try to get a Jimmy Jones makeover
I got the hood on my shoulder, city on my back
They like "Damn, I heard you charging 50 a track! I mean
You can at least give me a stack
You can't do all that hard work yourself and not give nothing back
You know how shit change when your name get to buzzing
This year alone I got two dozen new cousins
Niggas popping out the woodworks, talking about "you owe me"
Mama, I'm famous, niggas hate me that don't know me
[Outro]
Yo, I know you all suprised and shit when you see me on MTV
But keep your eyes glued to...I don't know what channel that is out here
In Chicago that's Channel 7, ABC
You might fuck around see me on Oprah Winfrey or something
Matter of fact, true story, true story
Last week...I got a little cold right now, true story, though
I'm on 40th and like 5th or something
I see an SUV and the window rolled down and shit!
And this black lady from Chicago, she like
"Yo, um, I just bought one of these in black."
You know I just got the G5 or whatever
She like, "I just got one of these in black
How does it drive?"
I'm like, "it drive more like a truck than my last one."
I'm like, "yo, but I'm from Chicago, too. I wanna be on your show!"
She said "yo, well, oh, ok, well, who are you?"
And I told her, "I'm Kanye West, 
a rapper
."


[Produced by Kanye West, Evian Christ, Dom Solo, Noah Goldstein, Arca and Mike Dean]
[
Verse 1: Kanye West]
Damn your lips very soft
As I turn my Blackberry off
And I turn your bathwater on
And you turn off your iPhone
Careless whispers, eye fuckin', bitin' ass
Neck, ears, hair, legs, eating ass
Your pussy's too good, I need to crash
Your titties, let 'em out, free at last
Thank God almighty, they free at last
We was up at the party but we was leavin' fast
Had to stop at 7-Eleven like I needed gas
I'm lyin', I needed condoms, don't look through the glass
Chasin' love, all the bittersweet hours lost
Eatin' Asian pussy, all I need was sweet and sour sauce
Tell your boss you need an extra hour off
Get you super wet after we turn the shower off
[Bridge: Assassin]
That's all dem can do (Say wah, say wah)
That's all dem can do
We deal with action ting
Just a badman ting, a' dat man do
Action thing yo a badman thing
[Verse 2: Assassin]
I'm a badman if you know say
Disrespect we no tek, no way Jose
Try that 'pon February the 30th
That's right, couldn't try that no day
When we roll 'round 'pon your block
Nuh badda feel say we won't spray, like a aerosol can
When we roll 'round 'pon your block
Nuh badda feel seh we won't spray, like an aerosol can
We agon' smile 'pon court day
Because we beat murder charge like O.J
[Hook: Kanye West and 
Justin Vernon
]
That’s right, I’m in it
(Should’ve known I would fall)
I’m in it
(Steppin' on cracks on the floor)
That’s right
(And your boys at your door)
That’s right, I’m in it
(Well, you need to fight for your own)
That’s right, I’m in it
(Then don’t let me at your table)
I’m in it
(If you just gonna lay there)
Fist jumps in the air, you love flame wars
I'll be gone long, grab that ass, shed your clothes
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Uh, picked up where we left off
Uh, I need you home when I get off
Uh, you know I need that wet mouth
Uh, I know you need that reptile
Uh, she cut from a different textile
Uh, she love different kinds of sex now
Uh, black girl sippin' white wine
Put my fist in her like a civil rights sign
And grabbed it with a slight grind
And held it 'til the right time
Then she came like AAAAAHHH!
[Hook 2: Assassin, 
Justin Vernon
, and Kanye West]
That's why I'm in it and I can't get out
(That's all dem can do (say wah, say wah?)
That's why I'm in it and I can't get out
(That's all dem can do)
That's all dem can do
We deal with action ting
Just a badman thing, a' dat man do
I'll be gone long, grab that...
[Bridge: Justin Vernon]
Say you long for me, for you
Lay it off with all your rules
Star fucker
Star fucker
Star fucker
Who, where?
[Outro: Kanye West]
Time to take it too far now
Uh, Michael Douglas out the car now
Uh, got the kids-and-the-wife life
Uh, but can't wake up from the nightlife
Uh, I'm so scared of my demons
Uh, I go to sleep with a nightlight
Uh, my mind move like a Tron bike
Uh, pop a wheelie on the Zeitgeist
Uh, I'm finna start a new movement
Uh, being led by the drums
Uh, I'm a rap-lic priest
Uh, gettin' head by the nuns
Uh, they don't play what I'm playin'
Uh, they don't see what I'm sayin'
Uh, they be ballin' in the D-League
Uh, I be speakin' Swaghili


[Hook: (Keyshia Cole and Kanye West)]
[Keyshia Cole]
I've been waiting my life; and I stayed on my grind
Now I made up my mind; it's been way too much time
That's why...It's just impossible - It's im-poss-ible
And you know that..
[Kanye]
I don't wanna hear that bull sh..; I wanna hear that official sh..
Kanye and that Twista sh..;
 
that's so impossible to get it
 (it's just impossible)
Get it, that's so impossible to get it
Get it, that's so impossible to get it (It's impossible)
[Twista]
Ain't no way you could pull up to the party
In a Bentley blowing B in a club like this; (oh no)
Ain't no way you could cook up in the studio
With Kanye and get it jukking in the club like this
 (oh no)
Ain't no way that you could win
Dust some haters off while 
I'm sippin on my Henn'
Holla at a chick while she sippin on her gin
And I got the mobsters hollering at her friends, (its impossible)
For you to ever be the nicest
You ain't get gangsta or get righteous
You ain't never stood on a tip like this
You ain't never stood for no sh.. like this, 
(Its just impossible)
For you to get it if you don't wanna win;
 
so get up off ya ass
And go for yours, and never for mine
Now you ain't from the ride that I'm in
Know what I'm sayin..
[Hook]
[Twista]
It's impossible for you to eva get wit me because of how I ride on the track;
Got the bitch in the back of the billy yo? When my celeb
Used to have the bitch in the back of the Cadillac (it's just impossible)
Niggas always hatin
Leaving me for wilin out for po kim
You be sittin back talking yo shit
I can't help but I see you tho, I don't get it (Its impossible)
Lil mama, for you to fit all that up in a pants; movin kinda wilder
Turn a regular jeans in a low riders
Tell me can I be your man (its just impossible)
For you to eva deny, that I'm about chi-town
Represent the city with the deal for 12 years
And sell a couple a mil and still hold it down, that's possible
[Hook]
[Kanye]
Get it; bundled up and - lit it; smoke a lil blunt don't - admit it
Do it like I did too late - I did it
The controversy can't worse me man
; 
I'm eating but I'm still thirsty
 and
Thirsty what is you saying
I gotta a duel with a couple niggas that's Thursday man
Why the hell is I'm worrying; hopping out the Benz with the perfect 10
"Man your life must be perfect man; look at how they came up with the perfect plan"
Its impossible
Got strip clubs playin gosspital
Girl so sick in the hospital
You know I jumped out like 'Pac'll do
I only break it down I when I rock wit you
Since Michael Jackson made "Rock with You"
I done did shit on logical
Maybe cause we did the impossible
Maybe we done did the impossible
[Hook]
[Outro]
No matter what I do, see I been waitin all my, waitin all my life, yeah
And I know I stayed on my grind, I know I stayed on my grind
Its impossible for me to fail baby, I gotta keep on movin
Gotta keep on movin, its impossible
(Its just impossible) (its impossible)


[Intro: DJ Class]
It's the remix
I'm the shit
I'm fresh up in this bitch
[Bridge: Kanye West]
DJ Class in this bitch! Mr. West in this bitch!
We done told you mu'fuckers now you know who the shit!
DJ Class in this bitch! Mr. West in this bitch!
We done told you mu'fuckers now you know who the shit!
[Verse One: DJ Class]
I got them diamonds on my neck,
 
got Patron in my cup
If you want it come and get it shorty I don't give a fuck
See it's friday night, and I just got paid
I done had a hard week, now it's time to celebrate
Tell the DJ play my shit, on that club music shit
Them girls wanna freak, back it all up on my dick
See it's on tonight, tryin to leave with somethin' right
I'm a grown ass man, so shorty you can spend the night
[Hook: DJ Class]
Cause I'm the shit (Yeah I'm the shit)
Up in this bitch (Up in this bitch)
Yeah I'm the shit (Yeah I'm the shit)
Up in this bitch (Up in this bitch)
Yeah I'm the shit (I'm the shit)
I'm the shit (Up in this bitch)
Yeah I'm the shit (I'm the shit)
Up in this bitch (Up in this bitch)
[Verse Two: Kanye West]
'Ye is in the buliding, let everybody know
I got the world in my hand and I ain't finna let it go
Is that yo' girlfriend? I really like her
I'm talkin' only for a night, I wouldn't wife her
I got them Yeezy's on my feet,
 
I got them Louie's in the sto' (Want some?)
And I dropped another album, 'fore we finished up the tour
And it's still top 10, 'bout fifteen weeks later
So that's a middle finger for you 808 haters
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Hook: DJ Class]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Hook: DJ Class]
[Outro: Kanye West]
Cool the unruly
Cool the unruly
Unruly
Unruly


I am not here right now; I am not home
Leave a message after the life, that I've atoned
I am not here right now; I am not home
Leave a message after the life, after I'm gone


[Hook]
I need to know, you down to do whatever?
Down to get it poppin? Down to get topless, ohh
I need to know, if you about cutting
Or you about frontin, baby I need to know
[Verse 1]
I spent my last 8 checks's on a neck-e-lace
So I better get some sex for this, shiit
She wanna sip up on the cris-e-cris
Like it's Christ-e-mas and I'm St. Nicholas
I got her and her sister innn
That white benz, dyke twins
I ain't gon lie they only fives but together they ten's
And would I do 'em again? Hmmm, hmmm?
It's like old folks pissin cause it all depends
And it's no coke sniffin just juice and gin
Grey Goose to get you loose
 
then hit the nigga producing
The track that got you movin, this track got you movin
So crazy you don't know what you doin
You been telling them jokes, and its not a rumor
I like a girl with a sense of humor
To give me head til it ache and it's not a tumor
So let me know what's goin down 'fo I pay for this room cuz
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Now if you got it you got it
And if you don't then you prolly won't
Sissy niggas call 'em
 
maricon
I never hit a lady but my game might abuse 'em
By 'em boots just to tell them that I Jimmy Choose 'em
Take 'em back to confuse 'em
So she don't know if she coming or going
Cuz mami after I'm cumming I'm going
Back to show just frontin and flowin
Jewelry stuntin and glowin, this life is something I know it
And I been known to have a 
ho or two
Cuz my diamonds yellow like a smoker tooth
I tell 'em step into the vocal booth
Roll a joint
, smoke a few, after that I'm pokin you
After that it's over boo, baby grab your coat and VOOM
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Now there's three different levels to relationships
Polly'n at the club wit em, talking getting affectionate
Leavin and havin sex with em, kickin them out
Trickin on models, dimes and rats, now I don't get into that
I kick that habit, I just, keep 'em impressed
Let 'em seat in the Lex, never, eat 'em unless
That fuckin cat looks fresh
I got a lion in my pocket, I'm lyin
I got a nine in my pants and baby I'm just dyin for a chance
Who ready to fuck? You ready to fuck? Off the sizzurp
Says she ready to cut, then she grabs my scissors
She prolly look good but what's scary to me
Henny make hoes look like Halle Berry to me
[Hook]


[Verse 1: La Roux]
We can fight our desires
But when we start making fires
We get ever so hot
Whether we like it or not
They say we can love who we trust
But what is love without lust
Two hearts with accurate devotions
And what are feelings without emotions?
[Refrain: La Roux]
I’m going in for the kill
I’m doing it for a thrill
Oh I’m hoping you’ll understand
And not let go of my hand
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I’m going in and I’ma go hard
I mean what's the point if it ain't no scars
A little teeth marks
Blood on the collar
That's real love
, mmhmm ahhnah
She said uh
How could you love someone that hurt you, played you, spoke to provoke you
How could you love someone that burns you, 
turns you into a werewolf
And in the moment you might do some things you’re not aware of
No one’s prepared for the scale of this, and now you fear love
And war and war and more and more drama looking for a score
State you’re looking for a tour
Her allure is more couture, tailor-made
'Til your screams in rage
I mean ahhhhh I'm breaking out the damn cage, aghh
Hannibal Lector,
 
my A-merican Psycho
A iller version of Ike, yo
The Thriller version of Michael
My recital is as bright as the light show up at the Eiffel
A werewolf up in Paris, I'm livin' off your vitals
I mean, I’ll be your con man, I’ll be your damn liar
Let's start the interview, I’ll be your vampire
I gotta feel you, bite your neck to get familiar
And if you die, guess what, I fuckin' killed you
[Refrain]
[Verse 3: La Roux]
Let’s go to war
To make peace
Let’s be cold
To create heat
I hope in darkness
We can see
And you’re not blinded by the light from me
[Refrain]


They held their wedding on 
a grassy ridge at the top of the Forti di Belvedere.
 The couple didn’t want to do it at an accessible part of the fort, so 
they hired a crane to lift every single item used in the wedding up 230 feet (70 meters) to the very top
.
The biggest decorative element of the wedding was a giant gold box, 49 feet (15 meters) tall, which contained the bathrooms. It was situated right next to the dinner tables at the reception with a bar in front of it. According to one Italian, “Their toilet was the star of the show.” 
The Italians named it the Torre di Bagni Oro (translation: the Gold Toilet Tower).
Four days before the wedding, they ordered 30 life-size nudes to be made from black marble from Carrara. 
The marble workers worked through the night to cut enough blocks, but 10 of them fell apart, another 10 were too damaged in transit to put out, and of the remaining 10, four were missing their heads. They were put out around the dinner tables.
Kanye came to the venue two hours before the wedding during set-up and ordered the marble nudes moved out farther away from the dinner tables. Each weighed half a ton, so the whole crew spent the final two hours rushing to get them moved. The forklifts were the first thing the guests saw upon arrival. And the gleaming Gold Toilet Tower.
Also two hours before the wedding, Kanye decided he didn’t need the 80 moving lights that he had ordered installed to light the dance floor and the party, declaring, “I’m in the center of this party, and 
I’m the only one people need to see.
 The rest of these people don’t need lights on them.” The lights, which had taken four days to install, were all removed, and the crane took them down the hill.
Kanye returned one hour before the wedding and didn’t like the all-white bar that was in front of the Gold Toilet Tower. 
He took a saw and started sawing it in half himself.
 Two men held the bar stable as he sawed, and sawed, into the bar, defacing the entire front, screaming at everyone around him. 
He said it looked like a bar from Texas.
 Then he ordered two pieces of raw wood to be nailed onto the front of the bar. Once the wood was in place, “Now,” he said, “it’s art.” The Italian construction teams looked at this guy and couldn’t believe what they were seeing.
At that same visit, when Kanye saw the 
$136,000 (100,000 Euro)
 audio system, described by one producer as the single best system in Europe, he said he didn’t like the look of the speakers and wanted them to be invisible. 
He said that “You Italians don’t understand my Minimalist style.”
 So he had the entire system pulled out as the guests were arriving, and his wedding music came from an iPod until after dinner.
There was the custom-built marble piano that 
John Legend used to play the song “Ordinary People.”
 Yes, you read that correctly: a marble piano.
Kanye danced five songs alone with Kim to John Legend (playing the marble piano), with no one else on the dance floor, and light only on them. It felt like it went on forever. 
Kanye then gave a 45-minute toast to himself.
As for the guests: Will Smith‘s son Jaden wore a white Batman costume and ran around like a chicken with its head cut off from 8:30 p.m. until 10:25 p.m., batting glasses off tables whenever he came to an empty seat, smashing them on the ground.
 Vogue Italia’s editor in chief, Franca Sozzani, was getting irritated because he kept coming up behind her and throwing his cape over her head.
People arrived at the ceremony several drinks in: Several rounds of cocktails had been served to the guests who waited for Kim, who was 25 minutes late to the wedding.
Andrea Bocelli sang during Kim’s processional. The blind opera legend had been asked as a guest, but the wedding planners hadn’t provided a seat for him. He said he’d be happy with a glass of water, and was told after his performance, “Thank you, but it’s time for you to get in your car and go home.” Bye-bye to one of the greatest living Italian vocalists of all time.
And the most prominent wedding gift was a giant bottle of Chianti, which had been dipped in gold (probably great for the flavor of the wine), the cork replaced with a diamond, a gift from Jay Z (a no-show).


 
You've been on the scene as an artist now for 10 years, which is impressive, given the level of interest and artistry that you've managed to sustain in your work.
 In the process, you've become incredibly influential. So you talk about doing all of these other things, which is great, but there's really no amount of money that could make you more influential than you are now. So my question is: What are you going to do with all of the influence that you have right now?
 Well, influence isn't my definition of success—it's a by-product of my creativity. I just want to create more. I would be fine with making less money. 
I actually spend the majority of my money attempting to create more things.
 Not buying things or solidifying myself or trying to make my house bigger, or trying to show people how many Louis Vuitton bags I can get, or buying my way to a good seat at the table. My definition of success, again, is getting my ideas out there. 
The first company that has really given me a shot is Adidas.
 They did the deal ... 
I mean, Damon Dash did the deal, at the end of the day. He signed Kanye West 12 years ago. What does that mean now?
  What does that mean to music? 
You know, people say things about creativity and jobs and every 10 years, blah, blah, blah.
 But I don't have a desire to not continue making music. 
When I left Chicago and moved to New York, it wasn't because I didn't love Chicago; it was because I needed to go to New York.
 So right now, I've got other innovations and other thoughts that I want to pursue. As I was saying earlier, I create like a 3-year-old. When you're 3, you wake up one morning and say, "I wanna ride a bike." And then the next day, you wake up and say, "I wanna draw." I don't want to be in a situation where, because I was good enough at riding a bike one day, then that's all I can do for the rest of my life. I mean, you know firsthand, being a fine artist and then moving into the Hollywood space ... You know, I say to Renzo Rosso, Bernard Arnault, and François-Henri Pinault, the heads of Diesel, LVMH, and Kering, "Come to my show and look at the mountain I made. Look at these 20,000 people screaming, and then tell me I don't deserve to design a T-shirt." If I want to design a T-shirt in my lifetime, then please help me do it! 
People say, "Well, why don't you just do it on your own?"
 Are you telling me to sew every single T-shirt? People say, "Why do you antagonize the high-end companies and your fan base?" and this and that. 
But what I'm saying is that in working with partners like Louis Vuitton and Zanotti and Balmain and Fendi
 like I have—and please forgive me for using film as a metaphor because I hate when people do that with music—I feel like it's a better form of film that I'm working with when I work with them. I'm working with better cameras. I'm working with better editors ... Steve, please forgive me because I feel like it's super-patronizing whenever someone does an analogy or a metaphor that relates to the field that you currently work in
 No, not at all
 I'm sorry. I find it super-insulting whenever people give me a music analogy. It's like, "You know, I would have understood it if you just said it in English. You didn't have to put it in music terms, like you somehow know more about music or I would understand it better if it were in music terms." So please forgive me for putting that in film terms. I mean, talking about film to Steve McQueen ...
 [laughs] I grew up in Europe, in London, and you grew up in the States. When was the first time you came to Europe? Do you remember?
 I think it was when Damon Dash had me and some other Roc-A-Fella artists come over. He stressed the importance of connecting with London, especially. 
Then we went to France, and I hated France when we first went there. Now, of course, I love it.
 But at the time, there was a rapper out of Chicago who wanted me to show up at some event of his, and he was trying to threaten me in some way physically if I didn't show up because we had done a record together. And Dame Dash had to man-up on the situation and apply a bit of gangster to have them fall back, just for me to be able to get on that first flight to London
 
It's interesting how when Malcolm X ventured out of the United States for the first time, he went to Europe, he went to Africa, he went to Mecca, and then, when he came back to America, he realized that, to some extent, for him, it wasn't about black or white, it was about people
. In talking to you now, it seems like you feel the same way—that it's never really been about race for you, but at the same time, it has very much been about that, if you know what I mean
 My mission is about what I want to create. It's for people, for humanity. It's about things that can make the world better. I'm not saying that I'm going to make a better world; I'm just saying that I will provide some things that will help, and my glass ceiling that I'm facing is based on my color. You know, I was looking at some cheesy-ass MTV videos a while ago, and it was so funny because it was like, "Wow, these videos are pre-Michael Jackson"—and people forget that Michael Jackson had to fight to get on MTV because he was considered to be an urban artist. This was, like, the greatest pop star of all time, and they told him, "We're not gonna play your video because it doesn't fit our format."
 
It actually stunned me to find out that you've never won Best Album at the Grammys.
 I suppose I shouldn't be surprised, but it's kind of odd, considering what you've done in music over the last decade
 
I wasn't even nominated for Best Album this year.
 This year, I only got two nominations by the Grammys: for Best Rap Album and Best Rap Song
 Well, that's my problem with all this stuff. It's ghettoization—and I'm talking about country as much as rap. It's all just music. And I've got a problem with people kind of trying to categorize it, where it's either good or it's bad. I find it all odd, to be honest. Have you ever been nominated for Best Album?
 
I've been nominated for Best Album maybe three times. I made Dark Fantasy and Watch the Throne less than a year apart and neither of them got nominated.
 
"Ni**as in Paris"
 [off Watch the Throne] wasn't nominated for Best Song either. But let's go into the fact that I have the most Grammys of any 36-year-old or 40-year-old or whatever, and I've never won a Grammy outside of the Rap or R&B categories. 
"Jesus Walks" lost Best Song to some other song; "Ni**as in Paris" wasn't nominated in that category.
 But those are the labels that people want to put on you. People see you in a certain way, so if I was doing a clothing line that had rock tees in it or whatever we just did for the "Yeezus" tour, which sells $400,000 of stuff in two days ... You know, I like Shame [2011] as much as 12 Years a Slave, but Hollywood likes the idea of a black director directing 12 Years a Slave more than it likes the idea of a black director directing Shame


[Talib Kweli]
Yes, welcome to the wonderful sounds of Talib Kweli
Ladies...
I got you in the mood, for an interlude
Raw like in the nude, I hope this ain't considered rude
But let's stop talkin, cause it's feelin like an interview
I know you into me, so, let me get into you
I'm always in the mood for laughin and lovin and rappin and *fuckin*
And passin the dutch and relaxin and puffin and hittin and duckin
The rippin production,
 
these kittens ain't muffins
Just because we stuff 'em in the oven
My words drippin off the tongue like the wax from a candle wick
Ill the way I lay down the rap, they can't handle it
Cats all sappy like romantic flicks
, dude, 
get a clue
Like Colonel Mustard in the study with a candlestick
They holdin hands with these dudes like they goin steady
But, one glimpse and I know they're ready, you already know
Slipped her a note like, 'you ready to go?'
We make a getaway plan and we head for the do'!
[Hook] x 2
I wear the night like a cloak cause I move with the stars
Navigate through the truly bizarre
Who we are, who we is, it's the kids that stay true to this life
And if the mood is right, we gon' do it tonight
[Kanye]
You messin up my mo', my whole mood, told you, oh
Lose, eat crews like crews like soulfood
The only producer that feel like "fuck rappers!"
Only backpacker with a chip like hackers
Only Michael Richards, only much blacker
So if he say nigger, then I'mma say *cracker*
Is this the Ritz? Carlton? Dress like, fresh, like, just like..
I'm the shit (Uggh)
You ain't figured out what I'm about yet
Always rockin that 'this ain't out yet'
But this ain't 'bout that
From a city where niggas plug like outlets
Far as music go yo, it ain't no outlets
, so
When I go out, niggers always out to get me in the studio
And I ain't in the mood to flow
I'm with my girl and I'm tryin to hit the movies yo
And they tryna act stupid, oh!
In the club with 
Silicone Suzie
What happened to real girls like Rudy?
With real titties like Tooty
This girl got a silicone booty!
And got the nerve to act moody!
Now I ain't tryin to judge like Judy
But bitch you a man, you can't fool me!
Act like Fifty, throw her in a pool G...
[Hook] x 2
Talib: Break it down
Bringin the drum, keep it funky like a stink in a slum
Cause see they wanna breed cursin for the things that don't come
The speakers wrong that we rap dudes speakin in tongues
Christmas time choice for what? No we keepin our guns
Smokin a piff to cause a leak in your lungs
You ain't got shit to do like Friday when the weekend begun
Completely done with rap dudes - don't compete with the dumb
I spill my blood for my people, see how deep it can run?
I'm in the mood like Donte and Main Flow
Never comin with the same flow, got it's change, yo
It's strange yo, to make yo chain glow, that's yo main goal
That's a facade like I'm somewhere over the rainbow
Really these cats sweeter than mangoes, 
Mr Bojangles-ass dudes
Dancin around the club,
 doin the tango
Go hard like Iverson playin with hurt ankles
Plus, wrestle the topic from a different Kurt Angle!
[Hook] x 2
[Roy Ayers] Wow, that's a nice track!


Kanye, can I talk to you for a minute? Me and the other faculty members was wonderin' could you do a lil som... Somethin' beautiful, somethin' that the kids is gon' love when they hear it. Tha's gon make them start jumpin' up and down and sharin' candy an' stuff.
 
Think you could probably do somethin' for the kids for graduation to sing?


[Produced By Kanye West]
[Intro:]
Ain't nobody lookin' like you do
Ain't nobody lookin' like you do
Ain't nobody lookin' like you do
Ain't nobody lookin' like you do


[Hook: John Legend]
Oh oh oh oh, I'm good, so good
Even better that I was the last time, baby (x3)
Oh oh oh oh, I'm good, so good, so good
[Verse: Kanye West]
It's your boy, Kanye to the
And we back
Feeling better than ever, huh?
Yo John, can't complain, huh?
Shit nigga, you got a deal on Def Jam
Got Cons with me, we in the works
Got my best friend GLC, the Knockout King
Through the doctor's exact calculations
He said, "Nigga, you almost bust the Final Destination."
"
Shit, you must have had a blessing from Pastor Mason
"
Cause that trip to L.A. could have been my last vacation, what?
I mean, there's people at war right now
We can't be sitting up here, complaining about the bills
Complaining about whatever beef we may have
We good, man
We blessed


[Nas]
Spit at the world
My lyrics, I could spit at your girl
Spit when I hurl, spit on the Dutch and finish the twirl
Spit facts, spit on wax my whole lifetime
Spit on my watch, make the ice shine
Spit trife lines, .44 spit slugs out
Ready to thug out at the clubhouse
Chickens who lickin' or spit a nut out
My name within itself is a language that bring you wealth
Careful, comin' at me is like hangin' yourself at a.....
I know you thought I'd be locked up
Dead by now, shot up, full of lead by now
Got up wit' JD doh', crazy dough
Queens with the So So Def, A-T-L's best (yeah I know)
Every ride up the 9-5, fly friendly skies
Thug passion for J Doves, Henneys for Nas
Then we mix that shit, tip that shit
Pass it around, hook the hood, everybody get wit' it
[Hook]
[Nas]
Through thick and thin, from beginning to the end
Never do I lose, all I do is win
Cause Queens Bridge is in the house
This is Nas Escobar and I turns it out
[JD]
Through thick and thin, from beginning to the end
Never do I lose, all I do is win
Cause Collin Park is in the house
They call me Don Chi Chi and I turns it out
[JD]
I'm sumpin' y'all dread like locks, get bread by the flocks
Bitches love me and I'm duggy from the head to the socks
Too much to handle, here da man of the year
Hit rooms and light'em up like a chandelier
From C-P to the Bridge, y'all know what it is
Been gettin' money like this since I was a kid
I'm in the corner with bitches and buckets of Cris
Pourin' at the most goin'est nigga wit' shit that showin' it
Now look at my ice, look at your ice, DAMN
Look at my life, look at your life, DAMN
See, I got niggas wantin' to drop me, top me, stop me
Copy Chi to the T cause I'm nice in the 3 black same color AMG's
T.V's, front and back pack with nuttin' but ladies
You can look up or down, right or left
But all you gon' hear and see is So So Def
[Hook, JD then Nas]
Touch the whole global with cold vocals and dark words
Vocal cords translate what my drunk heart slurs
Chest clogged up with sparked up herb, I feel faint
Tryin' to hold myself together, coulda spilt my own drink
All I hear is beats bumpin', I'm seein' in doubles
Last thing I need to happen is to be in a scuffle
Where my dogs at? These ain't my niggas Allah
Help the guard, forgot my niggas took some girls to the car
Tryin' to make it through the crowd, which way is out?
Which way is around? These grimy motherfucker's pointin' me out
I wish I had the drink, but then I'm too intoxed to aim and put the clip in
It's like the floor's wet and every step is like I'm slippin'
And yo, I can't lose a step, I feel my enemies followin'
All I got as a weapon is this Hennessee bottle
I'm talkin' to myself, my peoples should be stickin' with me
Somebody grabbed me up, "Yo Nas, come take this picture wit' me"
My ice strillon, I'm feelin' my arm
Thought my Roley was gone, now I wanna swing but I'm calm
Still got that, DJ musta threw on another hot track
Think it was this one here, bounce to that
Too much Thug Passion and smokin'
Made it outside, mouth wide, vomittin', gaggin' and chokin'
From behind, niggas plottin' and scopin'
Everything was blurry at first, but now shit is movin' in slow motion
I saw my niggas pull up, Perelli's they skidded
They open the car door and toss-ed me in it
My cats tried to rob me, the crowd was rowdy
But one thing's for sure, So So Def know how to party
[Backdrop]
All night long {'til when?}
Til the early morn (it don't stop)
And uh (it don't quit)
And uh (So So Def with the dope shit, bitch!)


[Intro: Kanye West]
Yeah, 9th Wonder on the beat
I can't front man, you got some hot beats
It's your boy Kanye To The
Got Consequence in here (I see now), Little Brother (I see now)
Yeah, I want y'all to listen
Question
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Now how the hell I end up arguing with this bitch? (aww)
Know everything, but don't know shit (aww)
Kinda reminiscent of Anna Nicole Smith (aww)
I just turn my music up like 'Damn that's some cold shit' (aww)
I mighta known her 'bout a couple of months
Since then she gained a couple of chunks
She went from being a strobe light
To that old lady on Boomerang
Lady Eloise I need no lights
And I swear she a riot folks
How she order all that food and a motherfucking Diet Coke?
He said 'You lying yo, why is you lying yo?'
Cut it out, quit it G, you hurting my kid-i-neys
Naw, she talking bout a couple of kids for me (aww)
She's hinting at a ring from Tiffany's
Right then and there I had an epiphany
I swear since that day I've been treating fat hoes differently
[Hook: Kanye West]
Aww, I see now
You was hurt and you on the rebound (aww)
Ben & Jerry's
 and 
Mickey D's now
And you just gone gain all that weight on me now (naw)
Naw (naw), fall back
If I ain't a player then what the hell you call that?
A nigga disrespect me I'mma be in all black
But baby if you let me I'mma take it all back
[Verse 2: Rapper Big Pooh, Consequence]
I write verses, do shows for a living
Hoes, they look at me like everyday thanksgiving
Peep, check how I'm living, white T's, free jeans
Shotgun and Capri's, 
big height like Yao Ming
And it seems the style then how they go out they way
Just to prove they dedicated and devoted to Ray
I guess it goes how they say, that that pimp will repay
That's why I put 'em to the test like everyday
Not like the G.E.D. or an S.A.T
Pop quiz, let 'em know that they meal ain't free
It's on like a college degree when you following me
Without the entry level job there's a modelling fee
So when I tell you 'Get 'em girl' and you prove that you true
I let you bolt up on the block with the rest of the crew
This just a couple of trials that we put 'em through
Let a nigga know now what you tryna do, for real
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Phonte]
Phonte the five star syllablist, females
I hit 'em with deliberate styles for me to try to lay with them
And then chill around the way with them
Like her name was Lisa, Angela, Pamela, Renee and them
Spat game, wanna come to my X games?
I keep 'em in-line like rollerblades at the X-Games
Phonte never was the type to kirk out and stress thangs
Till the album dropped now you thinking my rep changed
Look, we ain't sleeping on the floor no more
But it's a strange misconception I ain't poor no more
That's bullshit, if they ain't paying, fuck a Promo tour
I'd rather keep my ass home and hit the porno store
So we hit the sex shop cause she wanted to get with me
Two shots of 'gnac she started acting so giggly
Nine months later she went into delivery
And since then I treat my baby mama so differently, word
[Hook]
[Outro: Kanye West]
All back, yo I swear I'mma take this truck back man
I mean I got the new G5 whatever, that shit be in shop every two weeks
I told 'em, I told 'em if y'all don't take this back
And give me all my money back and trade me in for the CL
I'm gonna put it on this Little Brother song in two weeks and
And they ain't believe me but
Now I'mma let y'all know don't go out and buy the G5
I swear like it's a bad look for the girls
Really they get in the car and they always wanna look over and be like
'Aw nigga, your check engine light on, it's on'
I'm like 'Your top on, so we got two things we tryna get off right here'
They don't like that
I take it back, I take it back, 
I just say it to get you mad
I take it back, I could prove, I could prove something to you
Yo, yo I been in North Carolina for two days, where's the hoes at my nig'?


[Scarface]
I started small time, dope game, pushin on the corner
Twenty cent cook-up, fifty flippers if you want 'em
Full of formaldehyde, my clothes wreakin marijuana
Cops rollin up on us, my neighborhood's like a sauna
Pistol-grippin, insurin won't nobody run up on us
But if they do, fuck 'em, we murderous 
nickel-dome 'em
I ain't playin no games, I'm on a mission fo' the change
Motherfuck bein a lame,
 
I'm ten toes in the game
 - deep
I can't slip, this whole world want me sleep
See I hustle like a predator and prey on the weak
And playin for keeps, cause see, it's a thin red line
Between a nigga gettin his, and me gettin mine
And plus I'm a nigga with that feelin like it's my time
And anybody standin in the way of that is dyin
I bust nine, how many times I gotta warn you?
I ain't the one, be pushin buttons in the sight of my gun
I'm the real live version of the Corleone family
So I spit this clearly, so you hoes'll understand me..
[Scarface]
One wrong move, and I'mma have to leave you for the goons
Catch you slippin asleep in your bedroom and then {*BLAM*}
Get you Audi, now what the fuck was this dude thinkin?
You can cheat the rules of the streets, and not leave stinkin?
[Hook]
I can squeeze without blinkin, I'm a cold-blooded nigga
Bank robber (ooooh) I'm a natural born killer
Drug dealer, anything it took to survive
Even if it took a nigga to die, I'm a gangsta
[Scarface]
I got a brick from a sucker that he wanted to move
But the whole while I'm cookin I'm like, "Fuck this dude"
It's on, thirty-six zones of my own
Keep the money fo' myself and take the work back home
Call that nigga on the phone (ay) I just got knocked
And the cops was askin bout you, come get me hot
Never showed, so fuck him and the money that I owed
I got a get rich quick scheme, steppin on the dope
It's cold, but that's it, I'm on it like I want it
And twenty-eight cash and change, the whole game on it
That means I'm on my feet and I can front the homies D
Break 'em off a couple of C, and double up they fee
Takin over, shoot up they spot, make it hot
And when the cops dry it out, put my work on the block
And if they wanna ride for they corners we ride right with 'em
Dummy move, whole thing, the goon squad get 'em
[Hook]
[Scarface]
No mo' petty rock hustlin, I'm in for the run
And I'm fo'sho I'm gon' be murdered for this shit that I done
But I'mma die standin up cause I'm a stand up nigga
Fuck dyin like a bitch on my knees, I'm a killer
So don't nobody cry cause I was destined to get it
Just remember, I'm the one who took the dope game and flipped it
And pimped it, and destroyed everything in the way
Of me seein first motherfuckin light of the day
A trigger man, deadly as fuck with a loaded AK
Spot my enemy and kill him the American way
I turned a dream into reality, with a fuck you mentality
Silencin all these niggas in the neighborhood who challenged me
Family grievin from they loved one's mortality
He ain't got a reason to die then kill him, it's a tragedy
[Hook]
Right?


[Kanye West] + (Ryo-Z in background)
Yeah
Welcome, ladies and gentlemen
You're so privileged right now to be in the presence of
The truth (The days)
The creator (I praise)
The originator of this style
 (It's a shame)
Accept no immitations
Kanye To-The (The days)
With The Teriyaki Boyz (I pray)
Big Money League in effect (It's a shame)
I-I-I-I still love H.E.R
I-I still love H.E.R., 
Hanto E. Rap
(Verse 1)
(Ryo-Z in background)
[Ryo-Z] I remember anokoro wo omoikasu pen
Ima mo iro asenai Memory Lane
Deai wa School Daze nori de day moushikon demo
[Wise] Say he's just a friend
[Ryo-Z] Mori ni break
Are kara mainichi kimi ni tegami shitatameru
Tame nai chie shibori bokyabu wo drop
Daremo ga hotto, kyashinai hodo hot
Na baby, wo rock, suru ima ja boku no job
[Wise] When They Reminisce Over You, my girl
[Ryo-Z] Torimaku raibaru tachi tono sci-fi
Kimi to asonde itanda maiban
[Wise] I remember (I remember)
I remember (I remember)
I remember back in the day, 
high tops haite
Sugureta 
MJ no Dunk Shot kakete
After school, 
kimi to futari no park
Yofuke made
 
odotte takke
Next day, 
jugyou chuu
, as I read my S.A
Message
Kokoro komete ne
Futari dake no himitsu vocabulary
Chiribameta roburetaa
Tashika ni
Tsuuji atte ta O.P.P
Dekinai uwaki
Teiuka zokkon maji honki
Anna ni
Aishi atte noni
"What happened girl?"
[Ryo-Z] I remember
[Wise] I remember
Pre-Chorus: Verbal & Wise
Got a lot of soul and you know that your on my mind
Baby
Mada mada bokura wa kimi wo oikaketai
Lady
Chorus:
(Ryo-Z in background)
[Verbal] We used to play the games (The days)
[Illmari] Yuragani, my love (I praise)
[Wise] Hade, na paper chase (It's a shame)
[Teriyaki Boyz] 
Demo
[Kanye West] I still love H.E.R., Hanto E. Rap
[Verbal] We used to play the games (The days)
[Illmari] Yuragani, my love (I praise)
[Wise] Hade, na paper chase (It's a shame)
[Teriyaki Boyz] Demo
[Ryo-Z] I still love
[Kanye West] Hanto E. Rap
[Verbal]
Uh
Uh
Yo
(Verse 2)
[Verbal] I remember once again, all the times that we spent
All the words that you said, 
mada kizamarete
Ima demo can't forget
How you let the rhythm hit
Represent dokashitetane just to get a rep
Sonna koro ga fresh
Demo ima de ha all about the
Ikka ku senkin, 'bout the benjamins
About the mesaki no seiko bakari
Ryuu shutsu seiki rara pose on the internet
You know the whole repetoire
Kuchi guse wa kukumei
Datta no ga ima dewa, "Money makin'"
Atari mae no you ni time's racing
Dakedo ano koro no
Days, remember?
[Illmari] I remember
[Verbal] I remember
[Illmari] I remember kake meguru omoide
Koko de hodoite
Gutto kuruyou na omoide
Nagamete mae no hou ga poi ze
Choice is yours, na no ni poison
Erabu no wa doshite
Kimi ni moshi deru I still love
H-E-R
Tell me why
Hoka no ko wa hayari de Passin' Me By
Shiteku kedo kimi dake only one
Do what you like
If that's your style
Sonna ima no kimi to odottetai
Mada owachattanai
Kore ga hajimaridatte
Remember, kimi wa Hanto E. Rap
Repeat Pre-Chorus
Repeat Chorus
[Kanye West]
I know
I know
I know
Uh
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
This is what y'all all looking
 forward to
This is more than historical, anything that I say that is audible
Ought to blow, just like a chick givin' oral, yo
Lick the black, get the cream, like a Oreo
Hit the track, get the C.R.E.A.M., same story, yo
Trick that on 
Armani Emporium
, it's more important, though
Yes sir, 
my aura is orchestral, but way fresher
Cause I simply throw a symphony
, on a SMPTE, but I know
That niggas steal beats, so after I emcee, I empty the M.P
So I can stay out of reach,
 
they used to say, "You'se a producer"
I'm glad I never listened to you losers,
 cause now, I'm in
Shibuya
, buyin' somethin that's, way too exclusive
Uh, ra-ra-ra-ra-rappers are in danger, this floor is 
from a manger
But meaner than Lucifer
, 
yeah, and this is the new drug
I'm the new high, y'all want ya weed back?
Yell, "I still love H.E.R., 
Hanto E. Rap!
" (E. Rap...)
E. Rap
Repeat Chorus
[Verbal]
Alright


[Hook: Mary J. Blige]
I try, I try
I try, you know I try
I try, I try
I try, you know I try
[Verse 1: Talib Kweli]
K. West! Kweli!
Got searched on the plane, Arabic first name
Disturbed by the fame just like Kurt Cobain
Breath of life, kiss of death, my lips pursed the same
You flirt 'til she came
Nothin' hurt like the pain and torture
Daughters of the dust lookin' for a vein
Something to take in vain like the Lord's name
Put your hands together, got 'em all sayin'
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Talib Kweli]
Yo, it's all ghetto in gear higher than falsetto
More metal for beef that we don't let the law settle
I try to navigate the treacherous waters of
America's ghettos that set up to slaughter us
But there's more of us
Although we speak in different languages
We all pretty familiar with what anger is
Young and dangerous, trigger stranglers
Get up on some gangsta shit
Guns to bang ya wit'
And we put it on records to entertain ya wit'
Our growing pains go way deeper than Mike Seaver's
Our uniforms is white sneakers and white T-shirts
On top of wife beaters
We like to light reefers
The 'hood need us for rappers, just ain't the right leaders
I put a lot into it
This is my product and I gotta move it
Stop the industry but you can't stop the music
[Interlude: Mary J. Blige]
An upside down kingdom where life is just not fair (upside down kingdom)
Some many sufferin' cuz deep inside they're scared (so scared)
Fear pumped into their veins to keep them from their destiny
Where would they be if you and I don't care?
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Talib Kweli]
Yo, the things I'm seein' on the news is insane
A stock broker shoot his kid and throw himself in front of a train
A mother leave her baby home for two weeks all by himself
Three years old, eatin' ketchup and mustard, cryin for help
Tryin' to bring your struggle to life
The label want a song about a bubbly life
I have trouble tryin' to write some shit
To BANG in the club through the night
When people suffer tonight
Lord knows I try
[Hook]
[Interlude: Talib Kweli]
Life is a beautiful struggle
People search through the rubble for a suitable hustle
Some people usin' the noodle, some people usin' the muscle
Some people put it all together, make it fit like a puzzle
Come on, say it now
Life is a beautiful struggle
People search through the rubble for a suitable hustle
Some people usin' the noodle, some people usin' the muscle
Some people put it all together, yeah
[Hook]
Upside down kingdom
Oh, they're so scared
Everyday on the news we can't look around with
Something somewhere
I try, I try, you know I try
I try, I try, I try, you know I try
Lord knows, Lord knows we try
Yeah


[Intro: sample of "Superstar" from Luther Vandross]
Don't you remember you told me you loved me baby?
You said you'd be coming back this way again
Baby baby baby baby ohhh baby
I love you, yeah, I really do
[Saigon - over Intro]
Uhh, it's real
Dear Lord, yeah
This letter is from Saigon, the Yardfather
We fucked up Lord
Will, talk, to 'em
I tell 'em
[Saigon]
It's alright, it's alright
I know my rent is overdue, they 'bout to shut off my light
And even if I get a job, too late, you're too right
Gotta do what I gotta do to get this loot up tonight
It's alright, I write a letter dedicated to God
First I'll thank him, without him I'da never made it this far
But it's hard tryin to think of why he not gettin involved
It's a lady with a newborn baby livin in the car
The police is beatin us up, the hurricane is eatin us up
Katrina flood water was deep as a fuck
Dear Lord, are we ever gon' receive a reward
For all the sufferin and pain and misery we endure?
Just like Trans-Atlantic slave trade, the AIDS, the crack
When are we ever gon' get paid back?
PS: write your boy S to the A back
And tell Luther we got a joint we gave that stays on playback
[Hook: Marsha Ambrosius (Saigon) {sample}]
{"Don't you remember you told me you loved me baby?"}
When you told me you loved me (that's what you told me, ain't it?)
{"You said you'd be coming back this way again"}
(You said you, you, you said you, you said that you was comin back) I'm back
{"Baby baby baby baby ohhh baby"}
You told me you was comin back, that I would see you but you never told me when
{"I love you, yeah, I really do"}
I want you here to guide me by my side so it doesn't have to be in vain
So never leavin you again
[Saigon]
It's alright, it's alright
They narcotized
 
our neighborhood flood the ghetto with white
My nigga only 21, he too young for two strikes
But if he catch another felony he gonna do life, that ain't right
I write a letter dedicated to our
Father who art in Heaven, Muslim brothers call him Allah
And they all tryin to think of why he not gettin involved
America is bombin them for no reason at all
Gas prices eatin us up, parole officers cheatin us yup
They lock us in for dirty pee in a cup
Ayo I know you love us Lord, but please show black people a sign
To us, society's a lethal design
Them A-T-Liens adapt to the track
Up top, we call it the block, when not most of the crackers live that
C'mon Lord, you don't see nothin the matter with that?
Hit me back, I think me and you need to chat
[Hook]
[Saigon]
To all the ladies havin babies on they own
These niggas ain't shit ma, for real yo? You better off alone
If he ain't smart enough to know why he should stay
Then what could he possibly teach his seed anyway?
You gotta grind like you never grind
Even if it mean you gotta shake your never mind, I know I read your mind
You gotta do what you gotta, get it together ma
A baby ain't temporary, that shit's forever ma
A mother's love is the freshest kind
That'll get y'all through the hard times, the pain and the stress combined
Raise your seed, you don't need no man
Especially one that need to be de-programmed
Type brother think he righteous cause he don't eat no ham
But he keep plans of fuckin with some kilograms
Girlfriend, you know what you do when the time is right
You tell your lil' one that it's alright
For real, keep your head up
[Hook]
[Outro: Saigon]
I dedicate this song, to the whole Abandoned Nation
If you've been abandoned in any sense of the word
Then you part of this Abandoned Nation
Gotta take it for what it's worth, right
God love us young brothers, that's right
To all my brothers on lockdown, the whole Abandoned Nation
Let's go
[Numerous shoutouts to the end]


Uh, uh, uh, 1, 2, 1, 2
Uh, uh, 1, 2, 1, 2, uh, uh
All my dogs
[Hook]
It's bigger than hip hop, hip hop, hip hop, hip
It's bigger than hip hop, hip hop, hip hop, hip hop
[Verse 1: M1]
Uh, one thing 'bout music
When it hit you feel no pain
White folks says it controls your brain
I know better than that
That's 
game
 and we ready for that
Two soldiers
 
head of the pack
Matter of fact who got the gat?
And where my army at?
Rather attack than not react
Back the beats it don't reflect
On how many records get sold
On sex, drugs, and rock and roll
Whether your project's put on hold
In the real world
These just people with ideas
They just like me and you
When the smoke and camera disappear
Again the real world (world)
It's bigger than all these
 
fake ass records
When poor folks got the millions
And 
my woman's disrespected
If you check 1,2
My word of advice to you
 is just relax
Just do what you got to do
If that don't work then 
kick the facts
If you a fighter, rider, lighter, flame ignitor, crowd exciter
Or you wanna just get high
Then just say it
But then if you a liar-liar, pants on fire
Wolf-cry agent with a wire
I'm gon' know it when I play it
[Hook]
[Verse 2: stic.man]
Uh, who shot
 
Biggie Smalls
If we don't get them
They gonna get us all
I'm down for runnin' up on them
Crackers in they city hall
We ride for y'all
All my dogs stay real
Nigga don't think these record deals
Gonna feed your seeds
And pay your bills because they not
MC's get a little bit of love and think they hot
Talkin' 'bout how much money they got
Nigga all y'all records sound the same
I sick of that
 
fake thug
, R & B
Rap scenario all day on the radio
Same scenes in the video, monotonous material
Y'all don't hear me though
These record labels slang our tapes like dope
You can be next in line, and signed
And still be writing rhymes and broke
You would rather have a Lexus or justice
A dream or some substance
A Beamer, a necklace or freedom
Still a nigga like me don't playa' hate
I just stay awake
This real hip-hop, and it don't stop
'Til we get the 
po-po
 off the block
They call it
[Hook]
DP
's got that crazy shit we keep it 
crunk
 up
John Blaze'd
 and shit what
Uh, DP's got that crazy shit we keep it crunk up
John Blaze'd and shit
Uh, DP's got that crazy shit we keep it crunk up
John Blaze'd and shit
1, 2, 1, 2
Uh, DP's got that crazy shit we keep it crunk up
John Blaze'd and shit
Uh, DP's got that crazy shit we keep it crunk up
They call it
Fake, fake, fake records


[Intro]
It's still bigger than hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop hip
It's bigger than hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop
[Verse 1]
One thing 'bout music when it's real they get scared
Got us slavin' for the welfare
Ain't no food, clothes, or healthcare
I'm down for guerilla warfare
All my niggas put your guns in the air if you really don't care
Skunk in the air, make a nigga wanna buck in the air
For my brother locked up in the jump for a year
Shit is real out here don't believe these videos
This fake ass industry gotta pay to get a song on the radio
Really though, DP's gon' let you know
It's just a game of pimps and hoes
And it's all 'bout who you know
Not who we are, or how we grow
I rap 'bout what I know, what I go through
What I been through, not just for no dough
Even though the rent due, what I'm into ain't for no dough
Or just no fame,
 
everything must change, nothin remains the same
Sick of the same ol' thang, it's bigger than bling bling
[Refrain]
If I, feel it I feel it, if I don't, I don't
If it ain't really real then I probably won't
Rollin with my soldiers, live soldiers, ready to ride
For this real hip hop y'all I'm ready to die
Uhh, hip what hop what hip what hop what hip what hop what hip what
Hop c'mon, c'mon, my soldiers, live soldiers, ready to ride
For this real hip hop y'all I'm ready to die
[Verse 2]
Hip-hop means sayin' what I want, never bite my tongue
Hip-hop means teachin' the young
If you feelin' what I'm feelin' then you hearin' what I'm sayin'
Cause these fake fake records just keep on playin'
What you sayin huh DP bringin' the funk
Let the bass-line rattle your trunk, uh
Punk pig wit a badge wanna handcuff me cause my pants that's tend to sag
Hip-hop means throw up your rag, soldier flag
Whether ridin on the bus or you
 stole a jag
M-1 mean freedom
, 
burn the cash
Revolutionary love til the day we pass
Will they play it on the radio
Maybe not, maybe so we gon keep it pumpin' though
Everybody know we headed for the whoa, fo sho
[Verse 3]
Ay dogg that label is that slave ship
Owners got them whips and rappers is slaves
If you really wanna eat you gotta hear the same thing
With the football, b-ball, or if you slangin that dope
Ain't never seen no hope, brainwash video shows be foolin my folk
What the hell a brother gon do though, huh
When the rent due, when the lights and the gas gonna get cut off
Drop them raps or cock them gats
Ain't never had shit ever since we came to this bitch
Why I gotta feel pain to get rich
'Stead of stackin' chips, finna pack them clips
[Refrain 2]
If I, feel it I feel it, if I don't, I don't
If it ain't really real then I probably won't
Rollin with my soldiers, live soldiers, ready to ride
For this real hip hop y'all I'm ready to die
Ride to this if you miss 2Pac
Bounce to this if you love Big Poppa
My soldiers, live soldiers, ready to ride
For this real hip hop y'all I'm ready to die
Hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop, hip
It's bigger than hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop, hip
It's bigger than hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop, hip
It's bigger than hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop, hip-hop
[Refrain 2]


[Intro]
I don't wanna be what you want me to be
So when I call you're just yelling at me
I'm sorry it's my fault
It's over
[Hook] x2
Now what do you keep calling for
(What do you keep calling for, what do you keep calling for)
It's over, it's over
(What do you keep calling for, what do you keep calling for)
[Verse 1]
In the back of my mind I question why I keep calling
I guess I'm just used to getting my way I'm spoiled
I don't wanna be what you want me to be (don't wanna be)
So when I call you're just yelling at me
I'm sorry it's my fault
Oh, the clothes I bought you could still wear (still wear)
Did you store the cards and teddy bears (ooh)
See there I go again sticking my nose
I'm sorry it's my fault (hey, hey, hey, hey)
[Hook] x2
[Verse 2]
Girl talking to myself in the mirror is strange enough (strange enough)
So you gotta know sharing this with you is painful, yeah (painful)
You know we used to talk about our future
It ain't just all my fault (I know, I know, I know we used to talk about it, babe)
So say goodbye to the way the leaves would fall (leaves would fall)
The way we stand in the rain and we would bawl (we would cry)
Just say goodbye
To the walks and talks and the dark in the park
And it ain't just all my fault (hey, hey, hey, hey)
[Hook] x2
[Verse 3: Kayne West]
We lost a four leaf clover
Don't ask why shorty be over
News flash shorty we over
We like Def Jam and Hova
We like Bobby and Whitney
Except without the kiddies
Like Pamela Anderson's career
Except without the titties
We had some good times didn't we
I know I won't forget that
But we had some bad times and
That's time I wish I could get back
We coulda had it all
But I guess we'll never know
You been around me long enough
To know that now it's over
[Hook] x4
[Outro] x3
Nothing we can do with it
So we might as well forget it
Like we never ever did it, oh hey


Jimmy Kimmel: My guest tonight is a 21-time Grammy award winning performer, who last month threatened his very existence 
by threatening one of America's most beloved television personalities.  We had a big dumb fight on Twitter, but he was nice enough to agree to come and talk about it tonight.  Please welcome Kanye West!
[Kanye enters]
JK:  How are you?
Kanye West:  I'm okay.
JK:  I'm very happy that you came.  I'm glad you did, and I wanted to clear this up.  I really felt bad about all this stuff.  I did.
KW:  
Mm-hmm. [Laughter]
JK:  
I guess the first question I should ask is, who are you wearing?
KW: It's Ralph.
JK: Kramden? Lauren?
JK: Is that a new grill you have there?
KW: Nah they've been in my mouth for three years.
JK: That one on the bottom? OK well it's good to see you.
KW: Good seeing you too.
JK: I guess we should talk about what happened, because I do think that somewhere in you, you want people to understand where you’re coming from is that true?
KW: Yeah, correct.
JK: So we did a sketch on the show where we had - you did an interview  with the BBC Radio and it was an intense interview - and I’ll be honest with you, I only saw a couple of little parts of the [Zane Lowe] interview when we did this sketch.
KW: Yeah, that’s what I thought.
JK: In fairness, there was context to it and we took it out of context. And we had a couple of little kids reenact it. Which I didn’t think 
would be something that bothered you.
 Do you mind if we show a little clip of it?
Little Kanye: I've reached a point in my life where my Truman Show boat has hit the painting. I'm not trying to regurgitate myself. I'm a product person: not just clothing, but water bottle design, architecture, anything you could think about! Brought the leather jogging pants 6 years ago to Fendi, and they said no! How many motherfuckers have you done seen with leather jogging pants?!
JK: I'm gonna tell you something, the truth is the main reason I did that is because I like to see kids curse. I think it’s funny. (*Kanye laughs*) And I think that some people read into it differently that we were positioning you as a child, but that’s not true. In fact, we’ve done this to other people, with Lady Gaga, with quite a few people that we've had kids say what they said and reenact them. Of course this is not something you knew. And this is not something that people who just watched it online or whatever knew. And you called me. 
A lot of people think this is some kind of publicity stunt that you and I cooked up.
 But this isn't, right?
KW: I mean everyone out there in TV world, real world, whatever world you stay in, needs to know that I’ve never done a publicity stunt in my life. 
Any time I went up and spoke my mind, whether it put my career in jeopardy or whatever someone so called said, it was always what I thought was the truth. Whether I'm like reading from through a teleprompter or whatever I felt emotionally. I don't follow like rules of normal celebrity or what their publicist tells them to say.
 So I don’t do publicity stunts, period. So don’t ever think that.
JK: Me neither guys. (Laughter) So we talked on the phone, and I didn’t really know why you were calling. I heard you were upset. But I didn't know the context, and we had a bad conversation, right?
KW: Yeah, I knew you before. And I saw you at a wedding and I remember you telling me, I want people to know this side of you and different things like this and I saw this good guy at the wedding. So when I saw the skit - which I didn't watch all the way through because I didn't want to be infuriated - I was like I know you. So it was a combination of me knowing you, but also me NOT knowing the person who put a bad headline on the cover of In Touch. And me not knowing this person. So I was like this is the one person I know. So I can go and let out everything that I feel about every single bogus weekly cover, every skit, every single rumor in barber shops, everything that people feel is ok to treat celebrities like zoo animals or act like what they're saying is not serious, or their life is not serious or their dreams are not serious. And you know, it kinda just went and elevated from a call that we just had as men… that elevates sometimes, you take a guy, Jimmy does his thing. And I do my thing and at a certain point these egos can flare up and we kind of just took it back to high school for a minute.
JK: And I got beat up a lot in high school, So I didn't wanna go back to high school.
JK: And this is something that to be honest with everyone, this is something that when you're with another celebrity we complain about. This zoo animal, it's a perfect thing, because people online they just want you to click through so they'll put whatever they can put as a headline to get you to click through and it can be damaging and I think people look at you and they go, "this is a guy who’s got millions of dollars, he's got a beautiful wife and a new baby, we can’t possibly hurt this guy." And to be honest, even though I’m in that same position too - 
I don't have a baby
 - it’s not something that comes to my mind when I’m cooking up a comedy sketch. And some of these things are hurtful, and the truth is important. And it's... but on the other hand, I will say a lot of times you 
I think you bring it on yourself
, this kind of misunderstanding about you.
I personally found it odd to be in the position that I was in because I often… 
I don’t know if you know this, a lot of people think you’re a jerk.
 And I often, in my own personal conversations, say, no, I know this guy, he is not a jerk. In fact I think we have a picture which I happened to see on my Dad's iPad at the wedding and it's you and my Dad 
[*shows a photo of Kanye with Kimmel's dad] - who you may have though was Wolf Blitzer in fairness
 - but I mean to go to a wedding of a friend of mine and you took a 
Southwest Airlines
 flight to that wedding just to make it for this guy who was just a coworker and then to be so nice to everyone there, that tells me a lot about you. Everyone's nice to me when they meet me because they know I have a talk show and almost everyone's on their best behavior. But what I observe is how celebrities behave around other people - how they treat our staff and how they treat in this case my family, and I’ve always said that to people about you. And I think that's important for... I know part of you doesn’t care, I see you onstage saying, "I don’t want to hold your baby, I’ll drop your baby on it’s head…" you know I don’t believe any of that stuff when you say it.
KW: I’m not running for office, I’m just here to make good music, make people feel good when they hear my music. And you know when I did that [Zane Lowe] interview, I was really vocal about a lot of things that I've been dealing with over the past 10 years, when I was put in the classification of “just a celebrity.” Because you know for me, I’m a creative genius and there’s no other way to word it. I know you’re not supposed to say that about yourself, and I say things the wrong way a lot of times but my intention is always positive and I wanna bring more things to the world, I want to help the world. I want to make peoples’ lives easier. I spent 2 of my checks in telemarketing when I was 18 years old on a pair of 
Gucci slippers
, and this is before there was H&M and Zara, you couldn’t just find cool stuff when you were growing up. And for me, I care about cool stuff. It means something to me, it means stuff to a lot of people that are like me, and that’s what I was talking about on the Zane interview.
So when I come on here, I can laugh and I can joke, and I can see a skit and we can say, ok we love Kanye or we think his baby is cute or whatever, but for me, it’s bigger than who I am and my presence, living. It’s about when I was on Earth what did I do to help? And at what point did I hit a glass ceiling where people said you’re a celebrity so you can’t help in this box, you can’t help in this box. But I talked to Quincy Jones at 
John Legend’s wedding
, and you do music, you can do anything. Once you learn how to produce, you’re a producer, you understand textures and colors. I have an art background even before I was a musician. [Kimmel]
So now, that was funny, right?
[Kanye]
I imagine the skit was probably funny too.
[Kimmel]
It wasn’t that funny, to be honest with you. It was a five, I’d give it.
So I do want to ask you one more thing about the tweets because I just want to be clear--
bring up that...yeah, that--do you really think I look like SpongeBob?
[Kanye]
It’s the first thing that came to my mind.
[Kimmel]
Where were you when you were writing those tweets. I like to imagine, on the toilet.
[Kanye]
Yeah, that’s when I think of the best shit.
I was just at my place here, my old home here in LA.
 As we were writing it, there was a frustration I was getting out, but also they were really funny to me as I was writing it, and I just thought it was so amazing that 
I was saying this in real time, in real life
. You know, with my position, people are so scared to say anything, you know, as soon as you’re a celebrity, you’re not to say anything anymore. But just to completely wild out…
The only reason I could do that is because we could speak on a similar level, and we can go back and forth.
[Kimmel]
It was a crazy thing, to see that happen, as far as just the technology, and all of a sudden, everyone in the country knew you and I were having a really dumb fight.
[Kanye]
I just thought that that was amazing, to crack media, in a way. You know, I feel that media does everything they can to break creatives, to break artists, to break people’s spirits, and I do everything I can to break media.
[Kimmel]
From my standpoint, sometimes I’ll think of things and maybe it’s two o’clock in the morning on Saturday night, and my wife will go, “Don’t tweet that. Do not tweet that.” Because people take things out of context, but you just do it, you don’t care.
[Kanye]
You shoulda saw the second set of tweets…
[Kimmel]
Save them for next time.
I do just want to say congratulations on your new baby. In fact, I brought you a little gift. I made fun of this, but there really is such a thing as leather jogging pants, and there’s some tiny little leather jogging pants
[Kanye]
Fashion isn’t always practical.
 It’s more about emotion, it’s more about swag. It’s more about, you know, pussy. It’s more about, like, club. It’s more about style and stuff.
I remember me and 
my boy Virgil, that created the line Pyrex Vision
. 
We sat as interns at Fendi like six years ago. We had cue cards and everything, and the leather jogging pants is one of the things we presented that didn’t go through,
 and the reason I brought that up in 
the Zane interview
 is because there are people who made whole careers off of creating leather jogging pants. It became  a phenomenon over the past three years. And it was to say, you know, 
I would sit with Hedi Slimane, who’s now the head designer of Saint Laurent
, and he’d say, “Stop giving these  big brands your ideas and everything.” And it would just be like, what I was trying to express in the Zane interview was, like, me--I know I’m hip hop, and a rapper and everything--but I’ve got ideas that mean something if I could put the proper production around them. 
So when do a Nike Yeezy
 or a 
Louis Vuitton shoe
, the production around it was at the same level as the production on my CD, or when me and 
Rick Rubin
 or 
Mike Dean
 of whoever are working together. But if I go out and make my own t-shirt or something, and I call it “Kanye,” everybody’s gonna think about when 
I just called myself a creative genius
, and say “What’s so genius about this?” But when people line up for the Yeezy, they’re like, “Oh, wow, this is like really genius.” You need that production.
But currently in fashion and the way the fashion world works, there’s no black guy at the end of the runway in paris, in all honesty. 
And that’s what I was talking about when the Truman Show hit the boat.
[Kimmel]
What about a 
Steve Harvey collection
?
[Kanye]
Yeah, no. There’s no Steve Harvey collection. 
No extra buttons on jackets or anything like that.
But for Michael Jackson, 
Michael Jackson had to fight to get his videos on MTV because he was considered to be “urban.”
 
This is 
.
[Kimmel]
That’s true. He was considered a Black artist and was not right for MTV at that time.
[Kanye]
Yeah, a black artist. So, for me, think about this: 
When I’m in Paris and I’m sitting in Fashion Week for nine years
, and 
South Park makes fun of our outfits
 and all this, or people don’t understand why we’re there, I’m getting called names. Like stuff you can’t even say on TV. And I still can’t break that wall down. At a certain point, it’s like, Michael Jackson trying to get his videos on because, who do you know who’s known more for clothes than me? To not be able to do and produce to the highest level, and to have a meeting with 
. I’m talking about Andrew Rosen of Theory, this guy over here, this guy who runs this company, Leanne 
???
.  These are the real people who produce the clothes that are on your back. Zara, out there with Ortega, 
Francois Pinault
, everyone. And everyone just sort of looks at you  like you’re crazy and like you don’t crash the Internet. And you’re just like, “How can you get a shot?” And then you try to do it on your own, and like, real designers will work for a rapper, and you just cannot overcome it.
I mean, my grandfather drove the first cars in the marches just to get clean water
, and one of the parallels  I wanted to do for you is, like, Richard Pryor used to always talk about, he just wanted a clean plate. He just wanted to serve his stuff on a clean plate.  So if I do 
an interview in W Magazine
, right, and they take all these classist shots at me because--
it’s not about racism anymore; it’s classism, that’s what I talked about.
Paula Deen, she was old-school with it. They’re like, “We don’t do it like that anymore, Paula Deen. We’re 
 now.”
 So this classism is what they do to try to say, “You’re a 
,” or “Your girl’s on a reality show. You’re not up here with 
. You know, we’re old money, we--
[Kimmel]
It’s snobbery--
[Kanye]
It’s snobbery. And I’m not into all that snobbery. Because, you know what? We have the loudest voice, we have the loudest communication, and all we want to do is make awesome stuff. All we want is a real shot.  Not: OK, I’m a celebrity, so that means my line has to cost ten dollars a t-shirt. No, I understand about quality. I understand about fabrics. I spent 
ten thousand hours
 at this. I’ve dedicated my life to this. And a lot of people say, “OK, you have to do music.” I’m gonna keep doing music, but what if people told me I couldn’t rap, what woulda happened? What if people told me I couldn’t perform. I’m only 36 years old; I have other goals and other things.  And I’m gonna use my platform,  every platform, to stand up and say, “I want to make something, I want to make the next Ralph Lauren.” That was the point of the Zane interview, to say, people don’t stand up to protect their dreams. People are too scared of getting, you know, spoofed in a way. [Turns to Kimmel]
And the irony of it is, think about a creative person in school. When you picture them, you’re probably picturing them all the way in the back of the class sketching or maybe getting beat up, and I’m the one creative, and this is the reason why I did this, because creatives have gotten beat up my entire life, and there’s moments when I stood up to drug dealers in Chicago and said, “You can’t have my publishing. Come and kill me. Do whatever you’re gonna do, but you’re not going to bully me, you’re not gonna stop me, because my mother made me believe in myself.” No matter how many people tell me, “Stop believing in yourself! Stop seeing what you can do! Stop affirming what you’re gonna do and then completing that in real life.” That’s the improper way to do it. I refuse to follow those rules that society has set up and the way they control people  with low self-esteem. With improper information, with branding, with marketing… I refuse to follow those rules.
It’s about truth, it’s about information, it’s about awesomeness, and the only luxury is time. The time you spend with your family, that’s the only luxury. So this concept of “luxury” is improper to me. You know, with Nike, with Apple, you remember there was phones that cost 4,000 dollars?! Somebody pull out a [Produced by Metro Boomin]
[Hook: Future]
I just want to take you out and show you off
You already know that you the perfect one
Girl when I'm with you, feel like a champion
Ever since I got with you I feel like I done won me a trophy
A trophy, I won me a trophy
I won, I won, I won
A trophy
I just want to take you out and show you off
You already know that you the perfect one
Girl when I'm with you, feel like a champion
Ever since I got with you I feel like I done won me a trophy
Trophy, I won me a trophy
A trophy, I won me a trophy
Trophy, I won me a trophy
A trophy
[Verse 1: Future]
Get to fuckin' on the dresser just to make that pussy wetter
Gotta put you in that vintage then you rockin' Perry Ellis
Then I leave with you, only cause I believe in you
We get to bangin' on the walls just to piss the neighbors off
You and them twelve foot ceilings
I just painted the halls so I can breathe with you
So I can breathe with you
I want to live my dream with you
You say that money don't matter it's the times and the memories
And now that ass gettin' fatter and I know it's because of me
I know it's because of me
I know it's because of me, got you in custody
Whoever knockin at the door, they gotta wait til we finished
I know I started at the bottom but that ain't where we endin'
[Hook: Future]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
You the number one trophy wife
So it's only right to live the trophy life
You grew up on J. Lo, Timberlands by Manolo now
Till one day I put an angel in your ultra sound
I wanna dip that ass in gold, I wanna dip that ass in gold
I made it over NBA, NFL players
So every time I score it's like the Super Bowl
Baby, we should hit the south of France
So you could run around without them pants
I put that glacier on your little hand
Now that's the only thing without a tan
My trophy on that Bound bike, I gave you only pipe
If people don't hate then it won't be right
You could look at Kylie, Kendall, Kourtney and Khloe
All your Mama ever made was trophies, right?
[Hook: 
Future]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook]
And I wonder if you know
What it means, what it means
And I wonder if you know
What it means to find your dreams
[Verse 1]
I've been waiting on this my whole life
These dreams be waking me up at night
You say I think I'm never wrong
You know what, maybe you're right, aight
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
You say he get on your fucking nerves
You hope that he get what he deserves, word
Do you even remember what the issue is?
You just trying to find where the tissue is
You can still be who you wish you is
It ain't happen yet
And that's what intuition is
When you hop back in the car
Drive back to the crib
Run back to their arms
The smokescreens
The chokes and the screams
You ever wonder what it all really means?
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
And I'm back on my grind
A psychic read my lifeline
Told me in my lifetime
My name would help light up the Chicago skyline
And that's why I'm
Seven o'clock, that's primetime
Heaven'll watch,
 
God calling from the hotlines
Why he keep giving me hot lines?
I'm a star, how could I not shine?
How many ladies in the house?
How many ladies in the house without a spouse?
Something in your blouse got me feeling so aroused
What you about?
On that independent shit
Trade it all for a husband and some kids
You ever wonder what it all really mean?
You wonder if you’ll ever find your dreams?


[Verse 1: Game]
Tell 'em pray for me
It was God that brought Dre to me
Even brought the nigga Kanye for me
Bless
 - 
but them niggas shot Big
Made a nigga feel ashamed of the the city where he live
Make a nigga hate the logo on the Dodger cap
Thinking back to that beamer, wish my nigga Pac was strapped
But I'm dreaming
 
Las Vegas Boulevard,
 
Afeni's son's bullet scars
Everybody king of Diamonds until the feds pull they cards
Not the deck though
Hip Hop was better off when it was just Dre, Scarface, and Esco
Memoirs of the gold chain
It's a cold game nigga, Johnny Coltrane
Black Versaces with the gold frame
Nigga said he sold 'caine that's a bold claim
14 had a brain that could throw flames
So strange, have to blow they mind, Cobain
[Hook: Game & 
Kanye West
]
Mama forgive me cause I'm tryna make a living
, 
hah
Them niggas hatin' cause that Royce Phantom killing, hah
Niggas shining like they hanging from the ceiling
, hah
Me and 'Ye killing (Something like my Jesus piece, hah)
Lord willin', I see a billion
'Til then, I let my nuts hang (Something like my Jesus piece)
Throw them suicide doors up
And let that Holy Ghost swang
 
(Something like my Jesus piece)
[Verse 2: Game]
That's the crack music, nigga
Never spit a verse cause I was making trap music, nigga
I'm not an army, I'm a movement
The flow is water, Andre tried to Ice Cube him
Ice Cubin', roof translucent
Chick on my side tryna get my Trues loose
When I'm talkin' 'bout God, she 'posed to bow her head
Now she all on the blog, steady postin' 'bout her head
Got me thinking like a father, is the world safe?
Got me clinging to my daughter like shark fins in water
Rocks in my ears sunk the Titanic
This is my life and it's exactly how I planned it, damn it
God says everything happens for a reason
I seen four seasons at The Four Seasons
Take that chinchilla off, poor kids is freezing
Cookin' up in the same pot they ain't got to pee in
[Hook: Game & Kanye West]
[Verse 3: Common]
Pieces on gold leashes
Cruisers, around greases make them cohesive
I'm the sun shining with God features
Draw closer to a true blood bleeder, soul of a southern preacher
Went from dinner with bottom feeders to world leaders
We throw the peace up, knowing that the world need us
Eagerness to live life and see the bright lights
To sacrifices we made it's sorta Christ-like
At the after party thinking what the afterlife's like
He paid for my sins, is it really priced right?
Fuck it, I see the light,
 
broads, they see the light
Can't deny my Jesus piece that’s so Peter-like
Chicks crow for dough, get low for mo'
A combo she end up at the condo
Another Jane Doe or a golden angel
Pendant on an angle, watch the chain glow
[Hook: Game & Kanye West]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
We at war
We at war with terrorism, racism
But most of all we at war with ourselves
[Hook]
(Jesus walk)
God show me the way because the Devil tryna break me down
(Jesus walk with me)
[Verse 1]
You know what the Midwest is? Young and restless
Where restless (niggas) might snatch your necklace
And next these (niggas) might jack your Lexus
Somebody tell these (niggas) who Kanye West is
I walk through the valley of the Chi where death is
Top floor the view alone will leave you breathless *gasps*
Try to catch it *gasps* it's kinda hard
Getting choked by detectives, yeah, yeah, now check the method
They be askin' us questions, harass and arrest us
Sayin' 
"We eat pieces of shit like you for breakfast"
Huh? Y'all eat pieces of shit? What's the basis?
We ain't going nowhere but got suits and cases
A trunk full of coke, rental car from Avis
My mama used to say only Jesus can save us
Well mama I know I act a fool
But I'll be gone 'til November, I got packs to move
I hope
[Hook x2]
(Jesus walk)
God show me the way because the Devil's trying to break me down
(Jesus walk with me)
The only thing that I pray is that my feet don't fail me now
(Jesus walk)
And I don't think there's nothin' I can do now to right my wrongs
(Jesus walk with me)
I wanna talk to God but I'm afraid cause we ain't spoke in so long
[Verse 2]
To the hustlers, killers, murderers, drug dealers, even the scrippers
(Jesus walks for them)
To the victims of welfare for we livin' in Hell here, hell yeah
(Jesus walks for them)
Now, hear ye, hear ye, want to see Thee more clearly
I know he hear me when my feet get weary
Cause we're the almost nearly extinct
We rappers is role models: we rap, we don't think
I ain't here to argue about his facial features
Or here to convert atheists into believers
I'm just tryna say the way school need teachers
The way Kathie Lee needed Regis, that's the way I need Jesus
So here go my single dog, radio needs this
They say you can rap about anything except for Jesus
That means guns, sex, lies, videotape
But if I talk about God my record won't get played, huh?
Well if this take away from my spins
Which'll probably take away from my ends
Then I hope this take away from my sins
And bring the day that I'm dreamin' about
Next time I'm in the club, everybody screamin' out
[Hook]


[Mase]
Yeah! Uh
[Kanye West]
(Jesus, Jesus, talk to me)
(Jesus, Jesus, walk with me)
(Jesus, Jesus...)
(Jesus, Jesus...)
[Mase]
This song right here changed my life… come on, come on!
[Hook: Kanye West]
(Jesus walks)
God showed me the way, now the devil can’t break me down
(Jesus walks with me)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Between the girls and the jewelry
The devil tryin’ lure me, it fury me
(Jesus walks wit me)
My pastor's shakin’ his head
He ain’t sure of me, but surely
(Jesus walks wit me)
They asked, do you say your prayers at least two a week?
I ain’t talking to God, I know what I’ve been doin’ G
Do you know how I be embarrassed?
My prayers sound like Ben Stiller’s on Meet the Parents
And I ain’t good,
 
what they give us this day
The slaves is trying to give us this free
I’m trying to give us this pay
Man, you know how ‘dem strippers was
We was all ghetto fabulous
All at the rooms in the Sybaris
From this jacuzzi water, can you cleanse us?
Can you please unfog my Cartier lenses?
God sends signs sometimes only in glimpses
For me I almost died, falling asleep in them Benzes
It’s something about this beat that get me tranquilized
And when I play it at my shows I feel sanctified
And He gives me direction when I can’t decide
He is alive
How can you tell me that He ain't when I said
[Hook]
(Jesus walks)
God show me the way, now the devil can't break me down
(Jesus walks with me)
The only thing that I pray is that my feet don't fail me now
(I want Jesus)
And now I think there is something that I can say now that'll right my wrongs
(Jesus walks with me)
I finally talked to God, I ain't afraid cause His love is so strong
[Verse 2: Common]
Open your eyes, there's smoke in the skies
The Beast is holdin' a lies
Everywhere we move, motion denied
Emotion derived from posters of pride
Of African, 
cultures and tribes
Who live when we suppose they die
Laugh when we suppose they cry
The pain we holding inside
Cause all we really know is survive
Use that to remember we're kings
That's why we so addicted to diamonds and rings
And cutless supremes
Seen Diana Ross remember that my sisters is queens
The Lord is coming -- for now, he visit in dreams
For every mission it seems impossible
Speak to the gospel to remind me what God can do
When it's not logical
To those in hospitals and prisons
Low-income living
For them I say a prayer
 
keep giving
Learning to receive
My heart is burnin' to achieve
Even when it's hard to breathe, I still believe that
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Mase]
Before you take my name, take my fame
While you at it take my shame
Take my flaws, take my blame?
Feel my dirt, conceal my hurt
See my bruise, do this and you will walk in my shoes
You wasn't there when I was in deep thought
When I had two choice: kill him, or either leave New York
But I'm a truth teller, that's why I say what I'm saying
And the only thing the radio playing
Is cause you be paying
It ain't about who really hot no more
Beasts will knock no more
So who cares who flop no more?
I realize that most labels pay you for lies
And only law dudes can disguise
That your favorite artist (shhh)
I know you hear that (huh?)
You wanna fear that? (what?)
Your worst dream is that you was gonna hear that
Icon to rap is like John the Baptist
Prepared the way for what I came to say today
They deceived us, having thinking Jesus
Really didn't need us, when He loved the old days
He loved them boys in the hallway up in Broadway
Even those who be here for dope, every four days
To the strippers in broad day up in Norway
To the Detroit player gators in Marbres
With me, it's not just bars of music
I walk with God, I got the scars to prove it
[Hook]
(Jesus walks)
God show me the way, now the devil can't break me down
(Jesus walks with me)
The only thing that I pray is that my feet don't fail me now
[Outro: Mase]
Everybody out there
Just lift your hands right now
Just say this with me
Father, I thank you
For forgiving me of everything I've ever done
For Jesus walking with me
For dying for me
Raising for me
And all my sins have been forgiven
I'm a changed man
I'm healed, I'm delivered, I'm rich
And it's all because of Him
Now walk with me
Walk with me, walk, walk, walk with me
Walk with me


[Ma$e]
This song right here changed my life... come on, come on!
[Kanye West]
God show me the way, now the devil can't break me down
[Verse 1: Common]
Open your eyes, there's smoke in the skies
The Beast is holdin' a lies
Everywhere we move, motion denied
Emotion derived from posters of pride
Of African, cultures and tribes
Who live when we suppose they die
Laugh when we suppose they cry
The pain we holding inside
Cause all we really know is survive
Use that to remember we're kings
That's why we so addicted to diamonds and rings
And cutless supremes
Seen Diana Ross remember that my sisters is queens
The Lord is coming -- for now, he visit in dreams
For every mission it seems impossible
Speak to the gospel to remind me what God can do
When it's not logical
To those in hospitals and prisons
Low-income living
For them I say a prayer keep giving
Learning to receive
My heart is burnin' to achieve
Even when it's hard to breathe, I still believe that
[Hook: Kanye West]
God show me the way, now the devil can't break me down
The only thing that I pray is that my feet don't fail me now
And now I think there is something that I can say now that'll right my wrongs
I finally talked to God, I ain't afraid cause His love is so strong
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Jesus walk with me, he walk with the sinners cause I know I am
But I ain't no loser, I'm a winner and I know I can
Overcome the devil for he get the best of me
My daddy always said G-O-D gon' have tests for me
Illegally they told me to lie when they question me
But God sent an angel that said the truth will set you free
So in the midst of getting sued for more than my deal
I admitted I fell asleep at the wheel
Cause I realized I could've died, he saved me
Every single hit that got played he gave me
People ask me "Do you read your Bible?"
"It could help out when you need revival"
There's something about this beat that get me tranquilized
And when I play it at my shows I feel sanctified
And he give me direction when I can't decide
He is alive! How could you tell me that he ain't when I said
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 3: Ma$e]
Before you take my name, take my fame
While you at it take my shame
Take my flaws, take my blame?
Feel my dirt, conceal my hurt
See my bruise, do this and you will walk in my shoes
You wasn't there when I was in deep thought
When I had two choice: kill him, or either leave New York
But I'm a truth teller, that's why I say what I'm saying
And the only thing the radio is playing
Is because you be paying
It ain't about who really hot no more
Beasts will knock no more
So who cares who flop no more?
I realize that most labels pay you for lies
And only law dudes can disguise
That your favorite artist (shhh)
I know you hear that (huh?)
You wanna fear that? (what?)
Your worst dream is that you was gonna hear that
Icon to rap is like John the Baptist
Prepared the way for what I came to say today
They deceived us, having thinking Jesus
Really didn't need us, when He loved the old days
He loved them boys in the hallway up in Broadway
Even those who be here for dope, every four days
To the strippers in broad day up in Norway
To the Detroit player gators in Marbres
With me, it's not just bars of music
I walk with God, I got the scars to prove it
[Kanye West]
God show me the way, now the devil can't break me down
The only thing that I pray is that my feet don't fail me now
[Outro: Ma$e]
Everybody out there
Just lift your hands right now
Just say this with me
Father, I thank you
For forgiving me of everything I've ever done
For Jesus walking with me
For dying for me
Raising for me
And all my sins have been forgiven
I'm a changed man
I'm healed, I'm delivered, I'm rich
And it's all because of him
Now walk with me
Walk with me, walk, walk, walk with me
Walk with me



People told me I couldn’t rap.
 
People had all this advice for me about how I shouldn't try to rap.
 
And I wouldn’t even say I’m a rapper, I’m more of a messenger than a rapper.
So even when you say rap beef it sort of undermines it, and keeps re-contexting what I said. Whereas if you look at the Zane interview, it’s really something extremely fearless for someone in my position to do. Because most people just like bow down to TV or bow down to these cameras. Like I could care less about any of these cameras, all I care about is my family, I care about protecting my girl, protecting my baby, and protecting my ideas and my dreams. And ya know that's the reason why I went so crazy.
JK: I wanna go back to one thing you said which is when you say you’re a genius that upsets people, but the truth is a lot people think they’re geniuses, and nobody says it because it’s weird to say it, but it is most certainly more honest to say "I am a genius"…
KW: I’m totally weird, and I’m totally honest, 
and I’m totally inappropriate sometimes
. And the thing is for me to say I wasn’t a genius, I would just be lying to you and to myself.
JK: That's true, it’s false humility.
KW: Oh my god. It comes with your first ticket to LA, soon as you get off the plane, here’s your false humility. Maybe if keep up with this act long enough and go with this agency they'll give you a star on the Walk of Fame one day for kissing everybody's ass. But it's like that's not what we're doing. By the way, I want to shoutout the Walk of Fame,  because they said something like they’re not gonna put my girl on the Walk of Fame because she’s a reality star. It's like people are so so dated and not modern. There’s no way a Kim Kardashian shouldn’t have a star on the Walk of Fame. Its ridiculous old concepts. And you know for me, I’m just gonna give y’all the truth. It’s like my grandfather loved Ali until he died, and my grandmother hated Ali ’til she passed. 
So you’re gonna love me or you’re gonna hate me
, but I’m gonna be me.
[Applause]
JK: Alright, Kanye West is here, more with Kanye when we come back.
Announcer: The best tweets of Kanye West.
Josh Groban: Can we please toast to the motherfuckin' douchebags tonight? Do you know where to find marble conference tables? Looking to have a conference... not until I get the table though.
At most his tweets are 140 characters, but the depth of his passion is immeasurable.
Fur pillows are hard to actually sleep on. Man... what ever happened to my antique fish tank?
Announcer: You'll get all of your favorites
Josh Groban: Classical music is tight yo. I make awesome decisions in bike stores. French fries are the devil. Black is the new black.
Announcer: And many many more. Josh Groban's the best tweets of Kanye West includes 752 original songs on 48 CDs.
Josh Groban: I love me!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Announcer: In stores now.



Vertu phone
 right now, you look ridiculous, but there’s people who still spend five-thousand dollars on this bag, ten-thousand dollars on this to say, “Oh, we’re better than you.” I mean, taste, culture, art, you know, just the quality of your life. This is what I’m here to do, so  when I compare myself to Steve Jobs or Walt Disney, Howard Hughes, 
David Stern
, Michelangelo, Da Vinci, Jesus of whatever it is, I’m saying, “These are my heroes. These are people I look up to. This is the type of impact I want to make on the earth.” If I can make this type of impact up to this point, what can I do, if you call 
Bob Iger
 and say, “Yo, give him a shot.” If you call Oprah and say, “Yo, back this kid. This kid, his parents were educators. He wants to educate. He wants to look at curriculums and say, ‘How do we simplify that?’”
Exactly what I did in music, I want to apply to product, I want to apply to education. This is what my company Donda is about. 
I could rap all I want, but without that Roc-a-Fella chain, and Damon giving me that Roc-a-Fella chain. I don’t care how beats I sold to whoever, I couldn’t have made it to the point to make “Jesus Walks.”
 And now, even as a celebrity,  I’ve reached a ceiling. And the way paparazzi talk to me and my family is disrespectful, also. We bring something of joy to the world. When people hear my music they have a good time. And I should be respected as such when I walk down the street. Don’t ask me a question about something you say in a tabloid. Don’t try to antagonize me. Cause, you know what, it’s not safe for you in this zoo. Never think that I’m not from Chicago for one second. And think you can walk right up and disrespect me and my family constantly.
And people say, “Well, you signed up to be a celebrity, blah blah blah…” It’s like, you know what, and I understand paparazzi, you gotta get your money, it’s hard out here, but let’s have respect for each other. You do help me get money, paparazzi,  you show people how fresh my outfit is, that helps me influence people.
[Kimmel]
But when they show up at your house in the middle of the night, and your wife and your daughter are there, there’s no human decency there
.
[Kanye]
It’s a lack of decency.
[Kimmel]
Kanye West, everybody.


[Intro]
I seen you jockin Jay-Z
Cause he got a Mercedes and you know about his ladies
[Hook]
I seen you jockin' Jay-Z (I'm so dope boy fresh!)
[Verse 1]
Whose house? Hov's no doubt
'bout the only rapper still getting money in the drought
I moves out, in the global, I'm a mogul
Fifty thousand feet in the air and I'm still on my mobile
Fuck talking 'bout the recession the shit's depressing
I rock with Obama but I ain't no politician
And I chill with the thugs and the gangsters too
I ain't a blood but I'm warrin with the boys in blue
Crooked officer, crooked officer!
Why you wanna see me in a coffin sir?!
Is it against the law the way I'm flossin', sir?!
Benzes, Rolls Royces and Porsches, ugh!
Haters like, "Hov why you still talkin money shit?"
Cause I like money, bitch
I like fly shit, you like gossip
I let you do you, why you riding my tip?
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
That bloke from Oasis said I couldn't play guitar
Somebody shoulda told him I'm a fucking rock star
Today is gonna be the day that I'm gonna throw it back to you
I'm living life as a rocker, I'm like Pimp C, partner
Comin down in Mercedes, peeling off on the boppers
Worldwide show, I'm coming down in a chopper
Hundred eighty thou screamin "Hov!" with the Roc up
It's too easy, 
I got ladies on shoulders showing me they chi-chis
I met honey at the show last year
And now I'm acting brand new like a world premier
Yeah, I know life ain't fair
But chill, baby girl, my girl is here
I got models in a mosh pit
Dancing off-beat, but they know the words to my shit!
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
You ain't gotta jock Jay-Z, jock fly shit
You ain't gotta jock me, homie, jock my chick
Jock her Zinatti's, she body you with her fit
No that's not Pilates, her body is just thick
You ain't gotta jock her, nigga, jock my clique
Jock the dope boys cause we all tossed bricks
Federales jock me while I'm crossing the bridge
Click, click, take a portrait of this
I ain't no pretty boy I got a georgeous wrist
Cut handsome checks and my flow's pretty, sick
I'm some ghetto chic, I'm where the hood and high fashion meet
Ooh wee,
 
I'm like the camouflauge Louis
How you niggas want it the tux or the toolie?!
Haters, I ain't mad at you, if I wasn't me I probably jock me too
[Hook]


[Benzino]
Ladies and gentlemen, right now
We wanna bring forth to the stage
A very special guest
The undisputed Made Men
[Antonio Twice Thou]
Ayo don't run up on me, wit dat rah rah
Smoking lah lah
I'll blow holes in your dada, you nada
I toke a lotta, choke a lotta... from Havana
And stroke skins in the Ramada
, I open drama
Told the lamas in my bomba, word to mama
Ready to war in pajamas in these cold streets
I hold heat... 
I'm a known thief, with gold teeth
Matching custom made gold jeep
Croam rims, brown Tim's plus a Benz gettin' flown in
Equipt with shit to make domes spin
You average, we set standards
Trend set, Made Men wet
Anything moving in front of the Tek
With a maculet, acuret aim, crack the game
With a homerun, blasting lames wit they own gun
And its on son, my air crowds got the spare gat
By the gear shaft, with the clear gats out like tear gas
The wrong ones since a young gun
Notta unson hero with a filled sombrero
Gimme arms Memph, bomb threat phenomenom shit
I get (Uh!) the doe (Uh!) cause I want it (That's right!)
[Benzino]
Made grams makin' alright
While we push big cars under moon light
Be those 20 inche mirrors on Mercedes
Nigga knock for those niggas actin' shady
Never ever turn my back on my Made Men
Nigga when its time to set it, just say when
But for now we gonna ride like its do or die
And when its all set and done its just you and I
[Mr. Gzus]
C'mon, let the game break "G"
Even though its da grain cause of Made Men
Sellin' drugs with pistols just to get papes
211 your spot, leave you an 87
And a pen and pad be my only weapon
Aproachin' Armageddon, care to learn a cautious lesson?
Second guessin' in this life can be costly
When the bangs brokin' leave a nigga frosty
Frozen stiff from the 40 mill mega lift
]From a game played out like a Sega gift
For the streets, shit take a major wiff *sniffing*
Of the high ponent, seedless, canibus and teva, I believe that
It takes a lot of pain away, I do this everyday
It gotta be a betta way, lookin' for rider
Tomorrow been sufferin' the sorro
Took the heat, took the lead, now you follow
Every road has two paths
Ones fun and laughs opposite of blood bath
I chose the better half, run with the cheddar staff
Avoid the garbage, recycle the trash
To get track cats slapped up and kidnapped
Cause we rappin' don't mean it can happen, see the gas clappin'
Atease, you been clear from the homicide
Nuthin' ta fear cause we here (Just you and I!)
[Benzino]
Made grams makin' alright
While we push big cars under moon light
Be those 20 inche mirrors on Mercedes
Nigga knock for those niggas actin' shady
Never ever turn my back on my Made Men
Nigga when its time to set it, just say when
But for now we gonna ride like its do or die
And when its all set and done its just you and I
Made grams makin' alright
While we push big cars under moon light
Be those 20 inche mirrors on Mercedes
Nigga knock for those niggas actin' shady
Never ever turn my back on my Made Men
Nigga when its time to set it, just say when
But for now we gonna ride like its do or die
And when its all set and done its just you and I
Made Men... it's just you and I
[D Quest]
Here I go again (It's just you and I!)
Ohhhhhhhhh
Lets ride
Lets ride
Here I go again
That keeps us alright
Lets ride


I wanted to take 
white trash t-shirts
 and make it a video. 
I wanted to make it as phony as possible.
 
I wanted to show you that this is the type of imagery that has been presented to us for years,
 and 
the only difference is a black man in the middle.


Tia London “Kanye Rant”
Im back on my old shit
I mean my new shit
This is like song 14 on The Blueprint
I used to have that Renegade on repeat
Way before downloads it was cd’s
Pockets filled with a lot of lent
Not a cent, gotta vent
Lot of innocent lives lost on that project bench
Im from the city where niggas die young
Babies buy guns, Mothers crying
Sons killing their mothers just to stunt
What the fuck?
Im trying to make sense of it
A life now days is valuable as a pair of kicks
And these Margiela Pythons they
They fit me perfect. lace them up, murder these verses
Somewhere along the line I lost my passion for it
Or maybe this the passion y’all been asking for?
These pussy niggas say I should be rapping more
Writer, Rapper, Singer I can dribble titles back and forth
Down four in the fourth, but I’m good from the line
No I’m good with these lines
So many legends fell off, I just get better with time
Im still perfecting my craft, Im just waiting on my time
My fans say that its now, my fans say that its now
But I want to give them some great shit, and great shit it take time
Been a long time, tell me have you seen a
Chick of my stature, my poise and demeanor
Stay up on my toes sort of like a ballerina
And the… y’all know the rest
You bitches spend a couple thou on a purse
Im trying to get a hundred thou for a verse
I got so many different styles to work with
Meanwhile your silly little style it didn’t work
You should go back to work, you should go sale some work
Too talented for a 9-5 but I will give you that work
See most these niggas just be talking just so they can get heard
But all that talking shit the same shit that get your ass murked
Ain't trying to be another rap bitch in some Jordans
Im trying to make something with purpose and importance
Ain't trying to push it back I’m trying to push it forward
But all that weak shit y’all making keep pushing us back more
Im like a combination of Missy and Lauryn
Me and Trax like Missy and Tim, or Pippen and Jordan
From the south side of Chicago all the way to the Forbes
But I guess you’ll love me more when Im no longer recording
Wish Nate Dogg was still alive so he can sing on the chorus
Shit would have been better if you put me on the chorus, of course
You better hope and pray I stick to singing hooks
I was just warming up the pot you never seen me cook, really
But with these words Im a chemist
Tia London in the booth like Walter White up in that kitchen
Move that pen over that white
Hope these bars that Im penning
Reach my brother through them bars that he sitting behind in prison
I miss when music had depth and conviction
Intros and Interludes and it was felt in your spirit
Remember Marvin Gaye, He used to sing to me
He had me feeling like being black was the thing to be
Its your life and you decide what to dream to be
Don’t ever let this world come and steal your dreams you see
See Ye he put his soul in this music
Some would say he lost his soul cuz of music
Label execs who don’t give a shit controlling the music
Its still the people who decide when they get hold of the music
And Im a, continue to put my soul in this music
Until Im gone and just a soul, You’ll still have my music
And Im a do everything that they said I can’t
I got them all listening like a Kanye Rant
It’s Lo!


[DJ Khaled]
I’m so serious!
[Kanye West]
One, two them boys coming for you
Three, four, better lock your door
Five, six, hide your bitch
(Ayo Yeezy, pop your shit)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
They said, thou shall not be ill, thou shall not feel
Thou should not be trill, not be drill, not be real
Niggas selling packs, niggas flipping pills
They got heroin and cracks, man these niggas hot for real
Every year gon be our year, every year gon be my year
These niggas really is out here, these niggas really is out here
The block is at war, post traumatic stress
Ran up outta pills, rob that CVS
Niggas getting bust over In God We Trust
We believe in God but do God believe in us
If we believe enough, will we ever get to know ‘im
That lean got us dozing, we forget that we the chosen
[Bridge - Kanye West]
I’ve been poppin shit for too long
But still reppin’ where I came from
I guess it’s how I came up
I wish you would try to play us
[Hook: Kanye West]
I wish you would nigga
I wish you would nigga
I wish you would nigga
I wish you would nigga
I guess it’s how I came up
I wish you would try to play us
[Verse 2: Rick Ross]
My money on a another level
In the streets out here I'm hotter than the fucking devil
I wonder how I got a hundred in my fucking bezel
G5,
 
make it rain, I can change the weather
We fly, them niggas lame,
 
where your fucking cheddar?
Aim at your brain, AK be the fucking letters
Fuck niggas fall in alphabetical order
Frank Lucas fur,
 
the cap run more than a quarter
I’m at the fight, ringside, right next to promoters
All my niggas still hustle consider ‘em roguish
I remember catching buses just bought me a Lotus
All your codes get decoded, know the niggas you quoting
Hunh,
 
my corner will scorch ya, somehow my flow is the coldest
Money, power, respect, the only thing’s truly important
Family first, Khaled we gotta stay focused
God Forgives and I don’t,
 
pussy niggas on notice
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I wish you would nigga, I wish you would nigga
You see you got a couple cases, still look good nigga
You see these niggas’ll try to play ya, know how ya feel nigga
Eh yup, that’d be the day you wanna kill a nigga
But you gon chill nigga, just for your kids nigga
Cause now there’s kids doing grown man biz nigga
You just got home nigga, you tryna live nigga
You don’t wanna do another 5 years nigga
The boss is testing yo ass, the feds’ll question yo ass
They be drug testin’ yo ass and then they pray you don’t pass
And then you look in the sky, you got some questions to ask
With no response make you wanna grab the tech and the mac
[Bridge] + [Hook]
(ROZAY!)



Kanye West has been married for ten days, and he has that new-husband way with the ring still, pulling it on and off like it's something he might yet undo, or do again. The ring is gold, and understated in a way that not much else about Kanye West is. He sits in the lobby of New York's Mercer Hotel—the same hotel where he and Jay Z recorded most of 
—reflecting on the distance he's come. "I am a black American male from Chicago," West says, "who had my rehearsal dinner at Versailles and then got married in Florence with a view of the entire city."
He is one year removed from 
, the record that took all of West's prodigious pop gifts and made a show of immolating them one by one. He is one year removed from telling anyone who'd listen that he was going to burn the entire fashion industry down, or at least he would once they let him through the door. Now they kind of have: He's got a capsule collection with A.P.C. out now; a line with Adidas that debuts with footwear this fall; and somewhere off in the distance, a new menswear line. He's also got a new record—maybe even a full-on pop record, though he hasn't decided yet. He knows he is no longer the most popular man in rap. "Currently that spot is taken," West says. "Let's be honest—he got last summer."
"You know. There's only one person."
"Yeah. He got last summer. And I'd never given it up till last summer." Now he's thinking about taking it back. "It's a real question for me. Do I want to?"
Meanwhile, he's reckoning with what it is to be a father and a husband and a decent human. He's happier now—"You see I haven't name-dropped and said a bunch of negative stuff about people," he says at one point—but no less homicidally competitive or less convinced that he's the next Steve Jobs. He'd like to spend more time with his family. He'd also still like to build amusement parks. It's a contradiction, one he's only begun to resolve. And all the while, he can't go outside with his wife, Kim Kardashian, without having his photo taken. His entire waking life has become a performance, a manifesto, a fashion shoot
Most of the time, he's cool with that fact. But not always. "I hope we don't see no paparazzi today," West says. "Because I'm still getting acquainted with these jogging pants I threw on. Like, 'That's not my statement!'	"
That wasn't my goal. My goal is just to be respected as a man when I walk down the street with my family. I don't care what your job is, you're not gonna talk down to me, you're not gonna try to get a rise out of me. I'm a man first. And in establishing that, some interesting things have happened. 
It's difficult. And then put on top of that the idea of going and taking meetings with people, and people say, "We don't want to work with you, because we saw you get mad about running into the sign."
But also, there's no fangs. I don't have fangs. I'm a porcupine. I'm a blowfish. Like, I'm a—what's the fish that blows up?
Yeah. I'm a blowfish.
 
I'm not a shark
, I'm a blowfish. So that perfect example about me hitting my head, it's like a blowfish. I wasn't coming out of my house going to a paparazzi's house to attack them. I'm defending my family in front of my own house. I'm defending my name as someone's screaming something negative at me. That's a blowfish. People have me pinned as a shark or a predator in some way, and in no way am I that. I wouldn't want to hurt anyone. I want to defend people. I want to help people
For the person that wrote that, were they involved with anything last year that was as culturally significant as the 
 tour or that album? They didn't even talk there about the photographs, or the dress, or Andrea Bocelli singing, or the marble tables. They're like: "It's a gold toilet." No. The bathrooms—that usually would be a porta-potty—were wrapped in a fabric that was neutral to match the fort. The bar was terrible, and the wedding planner didn't approve it with me. I was having issues with this wedding planner the entire time on approvals, and I get there and they threw some weird plastic bar there. So the same materials that were used to cover the bathroom, we said, "Let's just use that, because this is all we have to make the bar look better." Which it did, in the end. And anyone knows that you cannot pick up tools yourself, because of—what are those rules about the workers?
Yeah, unions. You can't do that. It's illegal. That's false
And what I talked about in it was the idea of celebrity, and celebrities being treated like blacks were in the '60s, having no rights, and the fact that people can slander your name. I said that in the toast. And I had to say this in a position where I, from the art world, am marrying Kim. And how we're going to fight to raise the respect level for celebrities so that my daughter can live a more normal life. She didn't choose to be a celebrity. But she is. So I'm going to fight to make sure she has a better life
My feelings don't matter anymore
No. One of the things that I said at the speech was, anyone that's at this table has had to defend me or Kim or both of us at some point in their life. Ask a boxer: "In the third round, when he hit you from the side on your ear, how did that specifically feel?" You wouldn't ask a boxer that. Because you know they're there to fight. Meaning now you know I'm here to fight. I'm here to fight for the re-education of what celebrity is. To say, "Yes, we are celebrities, but yes, we're also innovators, we're also inventors, we're also thoughtful."
That's fine. But that's not the case, is it?
Yeah. I'm sitting right here, it's a fight. I'm fighting with the way I line my words up together and the way I place a sweater on top of a T-shirt. At this point, people know what's up. People know I'm smart. And people know that, whether it's 
 or Jimmy Kimmel, it's a trend to take the piss out of celebrity—just as much of a trend as wearing a gray hoodie or driving a Prius
In the speech, I talked about the idea of collaboration and all the people involved working together and being able to change things. Meaning there was a time for two or three years where fashion designers wouldn't give Kim dresses. There was a time they wouldn't even let me be at shows. Now the idea that Kim is in a Givenchy Couture dress is raising the communication. Because people would be more apt to be like, "Celebrities don't really have style. Celebrities can't dress. Celebrities are less educated." But they haven't had the chance to be able to break through and have Carine Roitfeld sitting right there. Carine Roitfeld is the Walt Disney of what Tumblr is today. She is the Kanye West of what Tumblr is today. She's the single most important person to what street style is today. And she was at the wedding seven seats down from Kim, who is one of the number one fashion plates of today. So I said, "Wow, Carine is seven seats down from Kim. 
Farnaz [Farjam]
, the producer of the 
 and the producer of 
, is four seats down from [director] Steve McQueen. And four seats, because in between them is Hosain [Rahman] from Jawbone." This is what I talked about. That was not a forty-five-minute speech to myself. Do you realize what that means for those people to be in that close of a proximity to each other?
All that, I wouldn't even speak on. It doesn't even matter to me whatsoever, who would show up. Because the most important person to show up there, to me, was Kim. And that's all that matters to me. I had to fight for that for seven years. But the fact that these other people showed up that are from such different worlds but have done such dynamic things—they're all, in a way, equal to what Kim has done in TV or what I had done in music. I was so moved that I just wanted people to stop and think they weren't sitting at a table full of fashion people, they weren't sitting at a table full of celebrities, they weren't sitting at a table full of movie directors. It really was a representation of the way we receive information today, post-Internet. And so Page Six can't overshadow the main point: 
. That alone to me is like the same moment when I brought Mos Def to the studio with Jay Z. It's about the people, and the fact that they're from different walks of life, and that they're working together and not discriminating against each other. There was a class system, and now there's a creative class system, and I think that's what you were talking about a bit—the class system of creativity
And my point is, they were all at her wedding
But when an Instagram photo gets 2.3 million likes—
That's because of who?
Don't say you don't know! It's because of Kim. Meaning there's no photo that I would have put up by myself, or next to one of my smarty friends, that would have got that amount of likes. So now you take this photo that has that amount of likes, and it has a flower wall from the same guy who does the Lanvin shows, and it has a couture Givenchy dress and Givenchy tuxedo in it. That's the point. Now the thing that is the most popular is also communicating the highest level of creativity. The concept of Kimye has more cultural significance than what Page Six could write
Saying "Hey, I like Kim" isn't as inspiring to people as us getting married. And anyone that's in a relationship knows that in order to get to the point to get married and then to be married and to then carry on, it needs that work put into it. Right now, people look at it and it's like, "Wow, that's inspiring." Meaning that love is infectious. You know, 
 is infectious—God flowing through us and us being little-baby creators and shit. But His energy and His love and what He wants us to have as people and the way He wants us to love each other, 
 infectious. 
Like they said in 
: Never lose your dinosaur.
 This is the ultimate example of a person never losing his dinosaur. Meaning that even as I grew in cultural awareness and respect and was put higher in the class system in some way for being this musician, I never lost my dinosaur
Kim is this girl who fucking turns me on. I love her. This is who I want to be next to and be around. And then people would try to say, "Well, you know, if you're a musician, you should be with a musician, and if you want to design, you need to be with a girl from the design world." I don't give a fuck about people's opinions. Because when a kid falls in love with an airplane or a bike or a dinosaur—especially if you're an only child and it's not because of the book that the sibling was reading—it's like, fuck, you mean to tell me that the dinosaurs walked the earth and stuff like that?! That's amazing! You mean to tell me that these giant multi-ton crafts can fly that fast and that loud, and they can flip, and there's danger, the possibility of them exploding? That's fucking cool! You mean to tell me that this girl with this fucking body and this face is also into style, and she's a nice person, and she has her own money and is family-oriented? That's just as cool as a fucking fighter jet or dinosaur! And just as rarely seen
I feel like you're stronger as a team. Because when you know you have a team player, it's not one on the world anymore. At least it's two on the world
Yeah, and then two and a half, eventually. It's like having some eyes in the back of your head. That's one reason why, when people try to spoof or talk shit, it's like: But you're mad because basically Kim is the type of girl that, her entire life, if you were in school with her, most people would be studying and up late nights, but for some reason she would have the skill set to go and grab the one book, turn to the exact page, and just magically say, "That's the exact answer." Or she could wink at the person who had done all the work and get it done anyway. And the point of life is getting shit done and being happy
And the joke was that I was supposed to say on the song, "Come on, Jay, you know we're both gonna have daughters." And I'm 
 mad, because you know when I pop that creative-genius shit? If I had had that, that could've been my one moment where I'm like: "Okay, fuck all the conversation. Look at that. I called that one."
I think Yeezus is the beginning of a completely new era of music. It was all new rules. It just broke every rule possible. None of the ideas were popular ideas. Even "Bound 2," when the video came out, I think people's apprehension—I mean, it's the same as any other Kanye West video. You just have colorful bears running around. It was completely morphed and weird and psychedelic and really druggy. I would have just liked to have had more nudity in it. That's the only thing. I just want to do crazy, colorful shit like that that has more nudity
It's funny, because when the Clippers situation happened, people started bringing up that song again. Sometimes you do things in the same way that a designer might throw out a new cut or a rapper might throw out a new concept, and people might not be into it at that time. If "New Slaves" had come out right after the Clippers incident, it would have seemed more timely. So the thirty meetings that I was having where I was going through a lot of these "Stay in your place" type conversations—"Stay in your box, this is what you do, you can't do anything else"—that led me to the point of creating "New Slaves" and "Blood on the Leaves" and the entire 
 album, and to make the album basically like a protest in music, where it only has like four melodies on it—you know, other people weren't in that place. Obviously certain things are more digestible for mass consumption. But it was interesting. That song that I do feel is the best rap verse of all
Time—
"New Slaves." The second verse. I argue that it's the best rap verse of all time.
 It's the 
 or 
 of a verse. You know, it's got the funny shit. It's got the antagonization. It's got patterns. It's got social and political consciousness. It's got struggle. It's got bravado. It's everything that a rap verse is supposed to be
Yeah! Because yeah, I 
 them. But I worked on them for like eight months! And the thing is, I had to finish the verses in order for the album to come out, and it's game time. I didn't freestyle those verses. That shit was worked and processed and Disneyfied and everything. By the way, those lines are super scary and serious, and everything that I'm saying on 
 is super politically direct, so I think that it's funny that you said that, because I think he needs to clarify that to people—that I didn't 
 in that time. I just 
 them in that time
It did move the needle. Only positive came from it. Maybe I'm not as good friends as I could have been with the Saint Laurent designer. And now I don't get the red-and-black versions of the white-and-black pants that are in stores, or whatever I would have got as a musician. But other than that, that communication was real. Alexander Wang made sure that I was able to go to a Balenciaga show, and I was never allowed to do that before because I was a celebrity. Listen to what I'm saying—me, as Kanye West: I guarantee you, I'm more than 50 percent responsible for every men's shoe that they sell. Me, the singular person. More than 50 percent responsible for every Balenciaga shoe they sell. And they would say, "You can't come to the show, because you are a celebrity." But all honesty, no ego, I have a level of influence, and I have a level of respect for the designers. And we 
 product on that Barneys floor
It sounds exactly like that
I think just my usual pattern is like that. It's like a pendulum. The pendulum gains momentum by swinging in the other direction. Even lyrically, I think about certain lines that I say on my new single, which is called "All Day," that usually Jay would say, but Jay's not on there. So I say, 
.
 Right? Jay would have said that. And then eventually I would have came in with, like, whatever I come in with. But the balance of a meal is that when people walk in, they want water first. People definitely weren't getting water first on Yeezus. I do fight with myself to say, "Keep fighting." But also, you know, you can't win every single fight. It's a long war, and if you're out there trying to, like, blow up every single building, you won't win the war
When I was sitting and trying to do a collaboration with the Gap, in the meeting, when they're like, "No, because you're a celebrity, and you have a bad reputation, and you don't know anything about clothing, so we don't want to do this"—in that meeting, there's no extra single that I could have done that could have got me that deal. There's no extra Grammy that I could have won that could have made it more real. And that's the reason why I had to express the way I feel. Which all rhymed just right there. But Yeezus was extremely purposeful. And what came from Yeezus: Paparazzi are nicer to me. The entire fashion industry is nicer to me. I do have a collaboration coming out. Young designers that would go and work at a house now look and say, "Wow, maybe we could potentially work at Donda. Maybe we could work for Kanye. Maybe that's a real thing." Because designers that are geared up to only want to work at a French fashion house are completely under the perception that it wouldn't be cool to work for a celebrityOver the past few months, 
the habitués of a central Paris
 neighborhood, one that’s home to many upscale law offices and accounting firms, have been noticing some unusual activity. A chauffeur-driven Porsche Panamera Turbo, painted matte black and resembling a late-model Batmobile, frequently zooms up to an elegant 19th-century building and disgorges various nonlawyer and nonaccountant types, including Kim Kardashian and the rapper Nas. Late at night, thumping hip-hop beats have been emanating from a loftlike apartment within the building, occasionally provoking complaints from the neighbors. If the voice in the songs sounds familiar, it’s because it belongs to the notorious man of the house, who’s been working on his latest album in a studio he’s had installed in the middle of his living room. 
“There’s leaders, and there’s followers,” he raps on one track. “I’d rather be a dick than a swallower.”
Yes, Kanye West is in town. The rapper–producer–designer–scandal magnet, now a part-time Parisian, is bringing his trademark raw-nerved swagger to one of Europe’s most discreet and tradition-bound capitals. But anyone who makes it inside West’s apartment will quickly realize that his impact on Paris has been far less consequential than Paris’s impact on him. Visits with the Kardashians have been punctuated by the arrivals of people like the haute-minimalist architect Joseph Dirand and the Belgian interior designer and antiques guru Axel Vervoordt, along with deliverymen hauling in West’s latest purchases: rare Le Corbusier lamps, Pierre Jeanneret chairs, and obscure body-art journals from Switzerland. For West, it’s all part of a crash course in the rarefied upper reaches of design, architecture, and overall good taste. The goal? “To make Kanye West as dope as possible,” he says, sitting in a midcentury swivel chair and wearing a plain dark hoodie and black cotton pants by a label he declines to identify, since he no longer believes in dropping brand names, except for his own
When it comes to personal dopeness, of course, West is not known for admitting that there’s much room for improvement. Even by hip-hop standards, his boastful self-regard is so extreme that it has inspired several analytical essays and countless jokes, not to mention an entire South Park episode. Addressing the crowds at his concerts this year, West has likened himself to such fellow creative geniuses as Pablo Picasso, 
Steve Jobs,
 and Michelangelo. And in the course of our interviews, which take place over several days in March and April, West goes even further, favorably comparing himself to Le Corbusier, the Beatles, Marlon Brando, Tiger Woods, Azzedine Alaïa, Kate Moss, and the Soup Nazi, among others
But for all his brazen posturing, West, 36, is one of the rare top artists in any field who’ll eagerly embrace the role of subordinate when he knows he’s got something to learn. This is the guy who moved to Rome for four months to work as an intern for Fendi before launching his own fashion line. His current exile in Paris—a town famously lacking in yes-men, where even a star like West is just another outsider who can’t get a table at his favorite restaurant if it happens to be full—seems like his latest exercise in self-abnegation, in the name of self-improvement. “In Paris, you’re as far as possible from the land of pleasant smiles,” West says. “You can just trip on inspiration—there are so many people here who dedicate their lives to excellence.” And inspiration is particularly crucial to West these days, given his ultimate ambition, which goes way beyond making hit records or developing a discerning eye for console tables. He’s plotting to create operas, stores, films, product packaging, amusement parks, and, possibly, entire cities. West is essentially out to redesign the world, if the world will let him do it
“How do you spell Mies van der Rohe?” West has logged on to his MacBook Pro laptop—custom-finished in matte black, just like the Porsche—and is Googling modernist architects while playing around with new beats for his album. As usual, there are several collaborators, friends, and minions milling around his living room studio, including the producer No I.D. and the Canadian rapper the Weeknd. When West is at the microphone, alternately freestyle rapping and bouncing up and down, it’s clear why his bona fides are unquestioned, at least in the realm of music. He blasts a new track at top volume, and its wailing Deep Purple–esque guitar riffs have the Weeknd holding his head in disbelief. “That shit is awesome,” the Weeknd says. “Just fucking reckless. A lot of people who hate you are just going to hate you so much more.” 
West says he wants the record—whose title, Yeezus, is a mashup of “Jesus” and West’s nickname, Yeezy—to be like a “one-man gangbang.”
 
He plays one intensely dark, primal track that he worked on with the French electro duo Daft Punk: the defiant anthem “I Am a God,” which he debuted live at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute Gala in New York in May
It turns out this song was inspired by a serious diss—not from another rapper but from a major fashion designer. Last fall, a few days before Paris Fashion Week, West was informed that he’d be invited to a widely anticipated runway show only on the condition that he agree not to attend any other shows. “So the next day I went to the studio with Daft Punk, and I wrote ‘I Am a God,’ ” West says. 
“Cause it’s like, Yo! Nobody can tell me where I can and can’t go. Man, I’m the No. 1 living and breathing rock star. I am Axl Rose; I am Jim Morrison; I am Jimi Hendrix.”
 West is not smiling as he says this, and his voice is getting louder with each sentence. “You can’t say that you love music and then say that Kanye West can’t come to your show! To even think they could tell me where I could and couldn’t go is just ludicrous. It’s blasphemous—to rock ‘n’ roll, and to music.”
Later, West gives a more measured take on the incident, explaining that he was “just very hurt” by the designer’s attempt to control him. “How can someone stop my opportunity to see something that he can teach me, that I can help teach the world?” West asks. But it’s precisely those types of outbursts, as well as the tortured semi-apologies that often follow them, that have come to define West’s public image. Whether it was his onstage ambush of Taylor Swift at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards 
(a fiasco that prompted President Obama to call West a jackass
) or his declaration during a live telethon for Hurricane Katrina victims that “George Bush doesn’t care about black people” (a moment that Bush called the low point of his presidency), West’s eruptions have made it all too easy for people to forget that he’s spent the past decade creating some of the most brilliantly original music of any genre. Rolling Stone, in its rhapsodic five-star review of 2010’s Twisted Fantasy review” My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, lauded him for “blowing past all the rules of hip-hop and pop, even though…he’s been the one inventing the rules.” (The reviewer added: “Nobody halfway sane could have made this album.”) Last year in The Atlantic, David Samuels hailed West as “the first true genius of the iPhone era, the Mozart of contemporary American music.” (He also called him “a narcissistic monster.”)
Of course, West’s bright and dark sides are fully interdependent, and they’re equally essential to his art. Both are very much on display during our conversations in Paris. It’s a big deal for West to invite a journalist into his house: He hasn’t given many interviews in the past few years. This is due in part to a string of PR disasters, the last of which was an on-air clash with Matt Lauer about the George Bush accusation, which led West to cancel a live performance on the Today show. West is especially wary of print interviews, since the writer retains the power to choose which of his quotes are relevant (though at one point he asks me to streamline his more rambling comments or, as he puts it, “to turn my flea market of information into a beautiful living space”). Another issue: West’s opinions evolve so quickly that by the time a profile comes out, he might have totally changed his mind. And finally, there’s his self-acknowledged deficiency in the eloquence department. “God’s little practical joke on me—as an intellect who doesn’t like to read a lot—is like, I’ll say some superphilosophical shit, but I’ll say it the wrong way,” he says, laughing. “I’ll use the wrong word, so it goes from being really special to completely retarded.”
For a while, West’s communications strategy involved pouring his heart out on Twitter, where his droll one-liners and 80-tweets-in-160-minutes rants earned him almost 10 million followers. But a few months ago, West deleted all his posts. He agreed to do this interview because he feels like he’s reaching peak creative potential—“bubbling at the highest level of output”—and he’s ready to talk publicly about his thoughts and theories and plans, in entertainment and beyond
West knows the risks of extending himself beyond the music world; he learned that the hard way in 2011, when he debuted his women’s fashion line in Paris. Many reviewers panned the collection, deeming it sloppily overwrought and marred by unfortunately placed zippers, but they were kinder about the second, which showed more focus and discipline. West is convinced that the critics got it backward. “The first collection was way better than the second,” he says. “It was more artful. It was 30 collections in one. It just takes time for me to slow down and think like a normal person.” Established designers, West notes, are already “in a position to go crazy. I tried to come out of the gate going crazy. And it didn’t work. So now I have to somehow put out something that says, ‘I look sensible!’ ” That might be accomplished by his new men’s capsule collection of jeans, T-shirts, and hoodies for a hip French brand, to be unveiled in July
Lately, however, West’s biggest impact on the fashion world has come not through his designs but through his personal wardrobe choices and those of his equally camera-ready girlfriend, Kim Kardashian. Having evolved beyond his earlier signature looks—the pink polos, the shutter shades—West now favors streetwear crossed with Parisian edge, confidently pairing the right Air Jordans with tuxedo jackets or Givenchy leather pants. And when Kardashian began surprising everyone last winter by stepping out in high-end European labels, she made it known she was dressing to please her man. For some people, that would mean more Victoria’s Secret, but pleasing Kanye West these days means more monochromatic and structured looks, more Dries Van Noten. West tells me he hasn’t been masterminding Kardashian’s makeover to the degree that everyone assumes. “Nobody can tell my girl what to do,” he says. “She just needed to be given some platforms of information to work from.” Since virtually everything Kardashian wears is instantly broadcast around the globe, West adds, “one beautiful thing is that as she discovers it, the world discovers it.” This includes Kardashian’s inevitable stumbles. “For her to take that risk in front of the world, it just shows you how much she loves me. And how much she actually loves the opportunity to learn. You got, like, a million companies saying, ‘This is impacting your brand! This is impacting your fans! And blah blah blah.’ But she still sees this light of beauty.”
One night when I’m scheduled to meet West at his apartment around 10 p.m., I walk in to find some Kardashians in the house. Kim has just headed back to Los Angeles after one of her brief Paris visits, but her brother, Rob, is sprawled on West’s gigantic Living Divani sofa with his girlfriend, the English model Naza Jafarian. They both offer friendly handshakes, then return to their smartphones. Next, Kim’s mother, Kris Jenner, drops by and looks around the apartment, which she’s seeing for the first time. “This is amazing!” she says as West shows her some of his favorite objects, including a new set of ceramic cups by Frances Palmer. Jenner’s rapport with West evinces equal parts jokey affection and in-law awkwardness. He plays her some of his unfinished songs, including “Awesome,” which is clearly about Kim. When she exclaims, “Great job!” West doesn’t find it as flattering as Jenner evidently intended. He raises his eyebrows. “Great job?” he says and sets off on a comic riff that cracks up everyone in the room. Toasting with his champagne glass, he says, “Great job, Baccarat, for making a glass that can hold liquid!” He looks down at his waist. “Great job, belt loops, for keeping my pants up!” Jenner laughs off the mockery but soon is ready to leave. Hugging West goodbye, she tells him, “I love you. You know where to find us, at the George V. Call us tomorrow, if you want.” It seems apparent to everyone, including Jenner, that West will not call
Much has been written about the celeb mega merger known as Kimye and about whether the match was made in heaven, or hell, or some unknown strange place. Undoubtedly, the West-Kardashian union further validates and indulges both stars’ unerring knack for making headlines. But given West’s current thirst for refined Euro cool, one might expect him to fall for some chicly cerebral French artist rather than a trash-TV queen who epitomizes the kind of branded mass culture he’s rebelling against. West dodges several of my questions about Kardashian and their future child. But when I ask him if he has any qualms about making appearances on shows like Keeping Up With the Kardashians, he says, “Oh, that’s just all for love. It’s simply that. At a certain point, or always, love is more important than any branding, or any set of cool people, or attempting to impress anyone. Because true love is just the way you feel.” Some intellectual ambivalence clearly remains, however. “Thoughts and feelings can disagree sometimes,” West says
In recent months, West has been dutifully making his homes more baby-friendly, working closely with the architect Oana Stanescu, a tall, coolheaded Romanian from the New York firm Family. In Los Angeles, he and Kardashian are redoing their recently purchased 9,000-square-foot manse in a gated community. The house is very L.A., a faux-French-Italian-whatever style that West admits does not quite meet his newly elevated aesthetic standards. Stanescu puts it bluntly: “It’s so bad, seriously—it couldn’t be any worse.” Both West and Stanescu have much higher hopes for the pared-down Paris loft, where they are streamlining the surfaces and spaces and adding a baby room. West’s hunger for expert opinions has led him to simultaneously consult with several competing designers and architects for the project. This is a huge no-no in the design world, but West is not the type to let etiquette get in his way; so far he’s been meeting with Dirand, Vervoordt, Tristan Auer, and a few others, sometimes on the sly. “I mean, it’s uncomfortable for every single person,” acknowledges Stanescu. “But it’s supposed to be—that’s what I think is the cool thing. Right now Kanye is just sponging things up, observing how these people work. He’s going to take an idea from Joseph and one from Tristan and make it his own.”
One afternoon I join West and Stanescu on one of their many educational field trips—a visit to Le Corbusier’s iconic Villa Savoye, the 1929 house turned museum outside Paris. We weave through highway traffic as West makes calls about an upcoming Jetsons movie on which, he tells me, he is creative director. Giving West a tour of the Villa Savoye, Stanescu explains why the reinforced-concrete structure, with its open plan, ribbon windows, and flat roof, was so radical for its time. West, fascinated, begins ruminating about how visionaries like Le Corbusier and himself can be misunderstood by their unenlightened peers. (Stanescu listens attentively, though she ignores a few of West’s comments, such as, “I love banquettes and shit.”) “Someone else’s negative opinion, it just doesn’t matter,” West says. “I bet there were people at the time who said to the owners of this house, ‘Why would you spend your money on this?’ And those people, I bet you that today nobody is visiting their house.”
Last year, when someone threatened to go public with a recording he’d made of himself and an unidentified woman in a hotel room, West was on the verge of releasing his own copy of it, to neutralize any threat of extortion. “For the most part, I’d rather people have one of those home videos than some of the paparazzi photos that get published,” he says. “At least I recorded the shit myself. That tape couldn’t have hurt me in any way if it came out—it could only have helped.” He finally decided against releasing it, but don’t be surprised if he changes his mind. “Now, I just do exactly what I want, whenever I want, how the fuck I want,” West says. “ ‘Fuck you’ is my message.”
Man, it's crazy. And having to take all of your energy, or a lot more of your energy, to focus on fashion. And while you're focusing on that, such-and-such just keeps coming for the spot
And I might complain about how hard it is in clothing, but also I think it's great that it's so hard. Because the barrier to entry is really, really, really, really high. And I'm literally trying to do—back when I did Watch the Throne, and the fashion, I think it was just too much for people. It was just too crazy. It was just too crazy to do Watch the Throne, "Niggas in Paris," shoot a surround-vision film in Qatar, show the film in Cannes…
Yeah, kilt. Then do two fashion shows with Jourdan Dunn, Joan Smalls, Irina Shayk, have Diddy, Anna Wintour, Riccardo, Kim at the show, and drop the Yeezys? It felt like every single industry that I was trying to tap into looked at every other industry and everyone held hands. It was like, "Fuck that. No. This is just too crazy."
History's gonna be harder to make than I thought
Yeah
Both me and Kim had to learn how to communicate as a team. These are two LeBrons, you know? Meaning she could do shit that a girlfriend in a relationship could never do. Obviously. And I could do stuff that a guy in a relationship could never do. So if you look at half my tweets back then, they were always, like, funny tweets that I wouldn't be able to say now. It wouldn't be respectful to my relationship. It's interesting, as I'm delving into being married: Like, what is my verbal creative communication? That's another thing I really like about clothing and film—you could still communicate with a film, because it's not you. But when you're a reality star or a rapper, you are the film
Yeah. It was more 
.
Yes! It's picking up skill sets that give you longevity. That's what I like about Jay. He has longevity. He's still at the top of relevancy from the way he moves, the way he interacts with people, his ability to 
brush things off of his shoulder
 and just win at life. He's the poster child of winning. And I think I was the poster child of, like, fighting and winning. But you always saw the fight. And with Jay, you always saw the win
That's funny that you're saying that. One of the reasons why I think that me and Kim are very powerful together isn't just the concept of celebrity or this mega rap star and this mega-beautiful pop star. It's something I explain to my girl: She is who she is. I am who I am. We have advisers and friends and everything, but those people are who they are and we are who we are. And what I had to learn from Kim is how to take more of her advice and less of other people's advice. There's a lot of Kim K skills that were added. In order to win at life, you need some Kim K skills, period
It depends. I think the people that are in the positions of power are starting to see or recognize that it's more than a celebrity thing, it's more than a music thing, and that there is something there. There's people who do celebrity lines. It's what they do. They've signed up to sit at a different table and to be in a different business than the people who do high-end lines
Yeah. And you haven't even seen what I'm doing for Adidas!
You just know
I don't know, man. I hope I can get one of these songs out in the next couple of weeks, just to have something up and running. But I think most likely September. I go back and forth. Like, should it be September or should it be October? Should it be November? When Beyoncé was working on her last album, she took a while. I was thinking it could somehow come out in June, like Yeezus, and just kill it for the summer. But then I'm like, I have to work on Adidas and be with my child
Yeah. This time three years ago, here at the Mercer, working on "Niggas in Paris," at this time in early June, it was apparent it was still not finished. I had the "married at the mall" line, we had "that shit cray," Jay had his verse… Jay finished his verse. He always finishes, and my shit is always kind of open. Like, "Okay, now I've got the Will Ferrell sample, so I need to say something that finishes the verse. 
But people have to not know what it means."
 [laughs] So it's like problem-solving to get to the point where you're saying, "going gorillas." It's difficult sometimes
But now, for the new album, one new thing could change everything. I had an idea of the way I wanted to do the album. And then I got a new song that's so good that the album has to be balanced against it. This song is a song that can be in the club like "Don't Like" or "Niggas in Paris." Whereas before I was working on the album and I had these beautiful songs, they were just more songs. 
They weren't saying, "Okay, tuck your whole summer in."
 They were just saying, "Hey, I'm a great musician, I make these beautiful songs, and they have all this meaning, and nobody can make anything that means this much."
Well, when I work on an album, it's fun at certain times. There's some accomplishments, and sometimes there's a bit of frustration. And it's usually like a nine-month process, right? This is a multi-lifetime process that we have now embarked on. Meaning starting now, you're just starting to see a glimmer of what the idea of West will mean. So right now, at this age and with this visibility and with the skill sets that Kim is now giving me, I think I have a good chance of success in building something that has longevity, high integrity, high success rate, and is very fulfilling, not only for me creatively but also in adding fulfillment to people's lives. Adding ease. Adding wonder. Adding magic
Well, you build your happy wife, happy life, happy home, all this stuff, right? Everybody that's in a relationship that has ever worked on a home knows one of the most frustrating processes is actually working on the home. So when people would see me last year, two years ago, unhappy, I was in the process of building the home
But what makes me happy is land, and we're on a boat now. This is Christopher Columbus. This is uncharted waters we're on. We'd be super happy to be on land, and also a little bit like, "Ah, the journey's over!" But I feel like, we got the Vogue cover, Steve McQueen won the Oscar, we finally got married… You know? We have a child. We're a family now. I am an arbiter of taste, and people think that I have the ability to make things cool—or if I'm doing it, it should be cool. And I feel that this stuff's starting to be cool. And that feels good to me. Because I don't like walking around with people thinking I'm doing uncool shit, because there's nothing I'm doing that's uncool. It's all innovative. You just might not understand it yet. But it's cool. Family is super cool. Going home to one girl every night is super cool. Just going home and getting on the floor and playing with your child is super cool. Not wearing a red leather jacket, and just looking like a dad and shit, is like super cool. Having someone that I can call Mom again. That shit is super cool


Kanye West
 and his creative enterprise 
DONDA
 have officially launched the 
GOOD Music Merchandise online store
 featuring multiple designs on everything from socks to snapbacks. After recently opening the 
Yeezus Tour Pop-Up Shop (curiously placed right next to the Kardashian trio's "D-A-S-H" store)
, Yeezus has dropped a whole new line of merchandise in support of his record label and newest enterprise in DONDA. The GOOD Music merchandise online store features all black and white items and some of the merchandise has even been 
worn by Yeezy himself
.
Recently, West spoke in an 
interview with Power 106's Big Boy Neighborhood
 denouncing high-fashion company 
Louis-Vuitton
 claiming their prices were "too extreme."
"If I had the opportunity to design for Louis Vuitton now I wouldn’t, because the prices are just too extreme,” said West.
 
“I don’t want to use my message to have kids saving up that much to be a part of what the ideas are. That’s the problem to me with luxury.”
West's desires to keep prices more affordable and "less extreme" shows in his recent ventures with both the GOOD Music store and his collaboration 
with PacSun and Wes Lang that offers Yeezus Tour shirts for $40 per shirt
. Merchandise from the GOOD Music store ranges from 
$34-$160
 (plus shipping and handling.) His less recent collaboration with 
A.P.C.
 has also been considered more "accessible."
You can check out the new merchandise store at http://goodmusicmerch.com/.


2005 Best Rap Album: The College Dropout
2005 Best Rap Song: Jesus Walks
2005 Best R&B Song: You Don't Know My Name by Alicia Keys
2006 Best Rap Song: Diamonds from Sierra Leone
2006 Best Rap Solo Performance: Gold Digger
2006 Best Rap Album: Late Registration
2008 Best Rap Song: Good Life
2008 Best Rap Album: Graduation
2008 Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group: Southside (with Common)
2008 Best Rap Solo Performance: Stronger
2009 Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group: Swagga Like Us (with T.I., Jay Z, & Lil Wayne)
2009 Best Rap/Sung Collaboration: American Boy by Estelle (feature)
2010 Best Rap/Sung Collaboration: Knock You Down (with Keri Hilson & Ne-Yo)
2010 Best Rap Song: Run This Town (with Jay Z and Rihanna)
2012 Best Rap/Sung Collaboration: All Of The Lights (with Rihanna, Kid Cudi & Fergie)
2012 Best Rap Song: All Of The Lights (with Rihanna, Kid Cudi & Fergie)
2012 Best Rap Performance: Otis (with Jay Z)
2012 Best Rap Album: My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy
2013 Best Rap Song: Niggas in Paris (with Jay Z)
2013 Best Performance: Niggas in Paris (with Jay Z)
2013 Best Rap/Sung Collaboration: No Church in the Wild (with Jay Z, Frank Ocean & The-Dream)


If the 
comments are true as reported
, this is 
classic anti-Semitism
. There it goes again, 
the age-old canard that Jews are all-powerful and control the levers of power in government
.  As a celebrity with a wide following, 
Kanye West
 should know better.  We hope that he will take responsibility for his words, understand why they are so offensive, 
and apologize to those he has offended.


Kanye West, according to law enforcement sources, has been named a suspect likely to be charged with attempted robbery, after an altercation with a photographer. This altercation occurred as Kanye was leaving the LAX airport on Friday, July 19th.
After Kanye's message to the press stating "nobody should talk to anybody," Kanye clearly loses his temper after being asked questions by the reporter. In the video, we see Kanye verbally lash out against the cameraman, 
and takes things one step further by physically assaulting the victim.
The photographers condition is currently unknown, 
but has been admitted to a nearby hospital.
Now, West faces felony attempted robbery charges. Police reportedly interviewed the victim, and he reportedly wants to press charges against West.
The following is a transcript of the verbal confrontation:
[Reporter "Dano"]
Kanye, can we talk to you, Kanye?
What's going on, man?
What was up with all that stuff, do you want to just squash all that?
Cause you're a cool guy.
Come on, Kanye, be cool, man.
I mean whats going on, why can't we talk to you?
I mean why?
No, no, come on Kanye I don't want to fight with you.
Dude, seriously, I don't want to fight with you, I'm just asking.
[Kanye]
I told you don't talk to me, right?
[Reporter]
You didn't tell me...
[Kanye]
What you're trying to do is get me in trouble, so i'll have to pay you like two hundred fifty thousand.
[Reporter]
No, no, no, no.



Sometimes it can seem as though West has a gift for making his life as complicated and difficult as possible. It’s a tendency he doesn’t deny. “I’m not comfortable with comfort,” he says. “I’m only comfortable when I’m in a place where I’m constantly learning and growing.” His creative process, like that of many of the geniuses he compares himself to, can be perfectionist to the point of masochistic. In March, when West first plays me some of his new songs, he says the album is almost finished. In April he tells me it’s only 30 percent complete. Noah Goldstein, West’s chief sound engineer, says this is typical of West, who thinks nothing of throwing out half an album if he composes a new beat that inspires him to change direction
In person, as in his song lyrics, West’s bombastic hotheadedness alternates with endearing displays of vulnerability and clear-eyed self–awareness. 
In the 2007 hit single “Can’t Tell Me Nothing,” which came out as his growing fame was bringing new degrees of both adulation and ridicule, he rapped these lines:
At one point I ask West why awards shows—where his occasional losses have sparked several of his most memorable public tirades—matter so much to him. He has already won an astonishing 21 Grammys, more than any other rap artist, including his friend-collaborator-rival Jay-Z. His five solo albums have all gone platinum and been mainstays on critics’ best-of-the-year lists, and he’s considered by many to be the top producer in hip-hop, with an unequalled gift for discovering talent. Who cares about getting more Grammys? West glares at me. “I care,” he says. “I care about everything. Sometimes not giving a fuck is caring the most.”
Friends say that for anyone trying to navigate the knotty terra incognita that is West’s psyche, all roads lead back to his mother, an iron-willed college professor whose goal was to instill in her only son the belief that he could accomplish anything. Donda West died in late 2007, from complications following a plastic-surgery procedure. Earlier that year she had published the book Raising Kanye: Life Lessons From the Mother of a Hip-Hop Superstar. (West contributed a witty foreword that begins: “I’ve known my mom since I was zero years old. She is quite dope.”) Donda devoted an entire chapter to the subject of West’s alleged arrogance, which she preferred to see as confidence. Back when West was in kindergarten in Chicago, she recalled, his teacher pointedly told her, “My, he doesn’t have any problem with self–esteem, does he?” Even then, Donda knew the remark wasn’t entirely a compliment, and in later years she was repeatedly advised that her “snot-nosed kid” needed more parental discipline and, perhaps, some time in the Boy Scouts. But although she wasn’t proud of some of West’s off-the-handle histrionics, she had no regrets about always nurturing his self-assurance and conviction. “When Kanye was very young, I began teaching him to love himself,” she wrote. “As a black man and as a man, period, he would need to be strong.”
“Basically, Kanye is hardwired to believe that anything is possible,” says Virgil Abloh, West’s close collaborator at Donda, the creative agency that oversees his nonmusical ventures. Abloh—who once spent a month holed up at Tokyo’s Grand Hyatt with West in the aftermath of his mother’s death and the Taylor Swift debacle—believes that today, West’s triple threat of talent, ambition, and fearlessness puts him “one meeting away from becoming Walt Disney.” West would not disagree. Across several fields, he predicts, “people are going to look back 10 or 20 years from now and say, ‘Man, I remember such and such was like this, but then Kanye got involved, and now it’s like this.’” Signs of West’s artistic drive are visible in the installation he debuted at last year’s Cannes Film Festival: a “surround-vision” film linked to his album Cruel Summer, with seven moving images projected simultaneously on separate screens in a pyramid-shaped tent
The details of many other projects remain fuzzy, since West is still dreaming them up. He’s planning his return to fashion and has set up an atelier in Milan, but right now, he says, his priority is “absorbing as much as possible” and finding the best people in every field to work with. The idea of failure seems to serve not as a deterrent but as a stimulus. Whenever he tries something new, West observes, “people say, ‘Why do you want to destroy your name?’ But I don’t care about my name as much as I care about my ideas. I could do something completely wrong, and people could hate it, but then someone else could see it and do it completely right. And it’s a push forward for civilization.”
West is not oblivious to his own narcissism. “On one end, I try to scale it back,” he says. “Because I don’t want to close any of the doors needed to create the best product possible. But my ego is my drug. My drug is, ‘I’m better than all you other motherfuckers. Kiss my ass!’ ” The people on West’s team seem to tune out his boasting, since they realize it serves a purpose. “I understand how it can be off-putting for people to hear it,” Stanescu says. “But I think it’s how Kanye pushes himself. If he didn’t have this belief that he could do major things and have a global impact, he would just go close himself off in a room.”
One afternoon, while West is taking a break from recording, eating stir-fried vegetables off an Hermès plate, we talk about some of the tracks on the new record. Few musicians like explaining what their songs mean, and West is no exception, but if you write one called “I Am a God,” you can’t avoid certain questions. I ask West outright what he’s getting at there. “Hmm,” he murmurs and stays silent for a few seconds, looking out the window
“I made that song because I am a god,” he says finally. He laughs for a second, then stops. “I don’t think there’s much more explanation. I’m not going to sit here and defend shit. That shit is rock ‘n’ roll, man. That shit is rap music. I am a god. Now what?”


[Intro: Ol' Dirty Bastard and Kanye West]
Yo this is Dirt McGirt
I'm chilling with Kanye West
He's killing y'all niggas on the beats
He's killing y'all niggas on the tracks
Where your plaques at dog
The game is officially over
Go kill yourself
[Hook: ODB (K. West)]
Now take that and equipment back to the store
We don't wanna hear that weak shit no more
Do anybody else make hits anymore
Guess not mothafucka, it's the Roc mothafucka
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Now y'all gon' stop talking that shit that you talking
Your broke-ass mamma couldn't afford that abortion
Now tell me how the hell she gon' afford that coffin
Now I done sat back and seen it all too often
The backbone of this like Marino to the Dolphins
Most hits out the Chi since Sosa and Andre Dawson
My niggas had Pro Tools, I had no tools
Karaoke machine, fuck it I'm old school
Only difference is my tracks drove niggas postal
So I drove costal while they stay local
How I can't rhyme when my freestyles'll roast you
Sit down I'll coach you while we style in posters, dog
Niggas had a chance to sign me, dropped the ball
I'll see you at the awards
Now after all that it took, 
I made it to The Roc
I guess I ain't as dumb as you look
[Hook x2]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Now I showed you how to do this, dog
Put a few beats on the tape, I saved this one for myself
I heard you niggas' tapes, need a little bit of help
But I'm rapping and I can't do nothing for you man
Ask G and Hop this, 40 grand if you ain't fam
I mean, if you ain't Hov if you ain't Cam
Damn I know you say he's killing hisself
He got a little bitty deal now he feeling hisself
Yup just cause I played beats and act hospitable
Don't mean I can't get you changed to hospital you
I'm from a raw family, dog, and I'll spit on you
So play like a kid in the garden and get little you
Who your hype man, I'm curious
It got you souped up like the cars on The Fast & Furious
Here go a new movie for you critics called "Who's Laughing?"
The best producer that rap better than the rappers
[Hook x2]
[Outro: Ol' Dirty Bastard and Kanye West]
Aftermath still making them hits, nigga
Lunatics still making them hits, nigga
So So Def still making them hits, nigga
Bad Boy still making them hits, nigga
Wu-Tang still making them hits, nigga
Ruff Ryders still making them hits, nigga
Cash Money still making them hits, nigga
Dirt McGirt still making them hits, nigga
Yo yo the game is over, go kill yourself
Go yourself nigga
We don't wanna hear that weak shit no more


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
It's Kenny sippin' Henny
, 
rhymes slicker than Teflon
At Stoolbend High, I'm the black Zac Efron
And when I meet a shorty, you know, we're goin' backwards
Pullin' more tail than my man, John Edwards
Lumpy, chunky, booger-eatin' chump be
Actin' outta place like Hootie singin' country!
Leave my girl alone and get your own tenderoni
C'mon, who are we kidding?
You're used to being lonely
[Verse 2: 
Kevin Michael Richardson
]
I need to say something here
Eh, hello, can you hear me?
A-B-C-D-E-F-G, someone should've told you not to fuck with me!
You think you can rhyme, man?
Your flow was amateur
I'm a nerd! I can smoke you with iambic pentameter!
Mess with me, homeboy, don't wanna risk it
I'll burn you like Mrs. Friedman's god-awful brisket
Yeah, how you like me now, bitch?
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Fall back, big boy, cuz ya steppin' to the best
Kenny West, test, test, test!
Yo, is this thing on?
Yeah, I just dissed you in Klingon
[Verse 4: Kevin Michael Richardson]
, yeah, I speak Klingon, too
So kiss my chocolate 
, and also, 
 you!
Your flow is faded, dated, deflated, and constipated
If I had to rate it? Hate it!
Translated? You ate it!
Hey, cheeseball, you've been grated
Chewed up, swallowed, and defecated
Ha! To restate it, on the DVD, this won't be pixilated
[Kanye West]
Alright, alright, I know you think you so hot
Question is, can you sing like a robot?
[Kevin Michael Richardson]
Yes, I can sing like a robot
[Kanye West]
Now, y'all just witness history in the makin'
[Kevin Michael Richardson]
Greatest combination since eggs and bacon
[Kanye West]
Kenny West and Cleveland Jr. Brown!
[Kevin Michael Richardson]
Let's get up...
[Kanye West & Kevin Michael Richardson]
And burn this mutha down!


[Produced by Sebastian Sartor & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
This is my time, this is my hour
This is my pain,
 
this is my name, this is my power
If it's my reign, then it's my shower
This pole position, I made a lane cause they blocked ours
Dope boys, block bleeders
Gold diggers don't stop either
Motivation is misguided if you hit the mark, then it's not needed
Carry on like a carry on, and my side bitch I let tag along
Call me "daddy" from a complex
Cause her mother's fucker wouldn't marry mom
No excuses, no regard
Step on the brick like a promenade
Twenty thousand on calling cards
And I'm speaking spanish like Don Omar
But
[Hook]
I'm King Push, this king push
I rap nigga 'bout trap niggas
I don't sing hooks
[Verse 2]
Fuck nigga, with the sly talk
Miss me, with all the pie talk
When them lights on you, and them letters big
You point us out, just like an eye-chart
But that's my fault, my details of the sidewalk
For eleven years, we seen better years
We was sellin' birds over the time port
My first grammy was my first brick
Red carpet, every bad bitch
More BMF than billboard
I got a label deal under my mattress
Cause...
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Vultures to my culture
Exploit the struggle, insult ya
They name dropping 'bout caine copping
But never been a foot soldier
Let's have another look, just get a little closer
Rage against the machine, black Zack de la Rocha
In a cranberry Rossta, inside track on the G rap poster
Best d-boy all I'm missing is a dash
Difference between me and Hova
But...
[Hook]


[Intro: J. Cole]
Yea
We fresh off-mutherfuckin South Beach
Yea, uh
[Verse: J. Cole]
Sometimes play the villain, sometimes play the hero
Sometimes I be Dilla, sometimes I be Preemo
Sometimes I be feeling, I got a big ego
Other times a nigga swim around like Nemo
Uh, small fish in a big ass pond
Pushed around like a mower on a big ass lawn
I get my weight up, inflate up
And make these old niggas open the gate up
At the mansions that they laid up in
Like, "Hello my name is Cole" - I'm walking right up in and well known
Don't give a fuck it you gon hate it man, hey fellow
Either you follow me or swallow me bitch
And I done hit to many hoes to ever pause that shit
Now since I just seen my face up in the XXL
A few chicks want to text "let's chill"-how obvious
Girls from all over the world is my hobby
And I got a chick who stay in DC like a lobbyist
My old chick from Raleigh that I still like to parley with
Just to hear that accent, now come and get that back bent
The moans turn to screams, I can feel her climaxing
Now if you faking that baby you need to try acting
Hollywood shit, had a nigga feeling like the milkman
Deliver that due to body good dick
Feeling like I got game that Karate couldn't kick
Therefore I'm bagging things that you probably wouldn't get, what up
I'm a talk until you tell me shut up
Uh, and we can walk the beach until the sun up
Huh, I ain't gon lie I'm trynna get some cut up
Ay, so what up
Hey, you heard that huh?
Oh you ain't heard of me well I prefer that
Uh, I text my number to you did you get that?
Huh, well when you lonely baby you can hit back
And I'll fix that
Tell me is you with that, hey
Ay tell me is you with that
Ay tell em is you with that
Yea, ay baby is you with that? Yea


[Intro: Keri Hilson talking]
A huh huh, not again
Ohh, this ain't supposed to happen to me
[Break: Kanye West]
Keep rocking and keep knocking
Whether you Louboutin-ed up or Reebok-in
You see the hate that they serving on a platter
So what we gonna have, dessert or disaster
[Verse 1: Keri Hilson]
I never thought I'd be in love like this
When I look at you my mind goes on a trip
Then you came in and knocked me on my face
Feels like in I'm a race but I already won first place
I never thought I'd fall for you as hard as I did
You got me thinking bout our life, our house, and kids
Every morning I look at you and smile
Cause boy you came around and you knocked me down, knocked me down
[Hook: Keri Hilson]
Sometimes love comes around and it knocks you down
Just get back up, when it knocks you down, knocks you down
[Verse 2: Ne-Yo]
I never thought I'd hear myself say
Y'all go ahead
I think I'm going to kick it with my girl today
I used to be commander-in-chief of my pimp ship flying high
Til I met this pretty little missile, shot me out the sky
Hey, so now I'm crashing
Don't know how it happened
But I know it feels so damn good
Said if I could go back and make it happen faster
Don't you know I would baby if I could
Miss Independent,
 
the load never too much, she helping me pull it
She shot the bullet that ended that life
I swear to you the pimp in me just died tonight
Girl sometimes love
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Tell me now, can you make it past your Caspers
So we can finally fly off into NASA
You was always the cheerleader of my dream
That seem to only date the head of football teams
And I was the class clown that always kept you laughing
We were never meant to be baby we just happened
So please don't mess up the trick
Hey Young World, I'm the new Slick Rick
They say I move too quick but we can't let this moment pass us
Let the hourglass pass right into ashes
Let the wind blow the ash right before my glasses
So I wrote this love letter right before my classes
How could a goddess ask someone thats only average
For advice, OMG, you listen to that bitch
Woe is me baby this is tragic
Cause we had it, we was magic
I was flying now I'm crashing
This is Bad, real bad, Michael Jackson
Now I'm mad, real mad, Joe Jackson
You should leave your boyfriend now, I'm gon' ask him
[Verse 4: Keri Hilson]
So you got to take the good with the bad, happy and the sad
And let it bring a better future than I had in the past
Oh, cause I don't want to make the same mistakes I did
I don't want to fall back on my face again
I'll admit it, I was scared to act to love's call
And if it hits better make it worth the fall
[Hook]
[Outro: Keri Hilson and Ne-Yo]
Won't see it coming when it happens
But when it happens
You're gonna feel it let me tell you now
You see when love comes and knocks you down
Yeah


[Intro]
Yo, this that shit
Just to let niggas know
You can’t fuck with us
[Hook]
But I don’t even wanna hit on you, don’t wanna know his name
Sit down nigga, I know the game
Clothes shopper, I know the game
Take it and put it back into the store
Crazy cat, ah
And I don’t wanna hear all those excuses, they all the same
We should both be ashamed
[Verse 1]
Got me talkin bout love, you mean forever
You mean me falling in love, talking never
She’s missing me after this one chick got together
She told me she had a man but they not together
Let me tell you how I first met her
It’s kinda ill though
I’m downtown tryna find Anita
That’s where I find this diva stand in front the hospital
I double park the car, scream, yo man’s not with you
As for the cigarettes just brought the convo what went on
I man up and eat, her belly holdin on
And as far as she say
Oh that was over, he say she say
So you telling me your man stayed up in micro weeds
Mistaken identity like Cochise and I’m finna be
Holla at you now, know we’ll talk later
And I wanna get up but you got flavor
Now I’ma let you get the cell, let you get the pager
And if you ain’t around no haters you can call me later
[Hook]
But I don’t even wanna hit on you, don’t wanna know his name
I know the game, I know the game
Y’all know the game
And I don’t wanna hear all those excuses, they all the same
We should both be ashamed
Cause we know the game
[Verse 2]
She must’ve known where the dollars at
Cause it ain’t taken long at all but need to holla back
Gave me directions to the crib, told me follow that
And I could park in back where the Impala at
But she ain’t stayed on the southside, south southside
Deeper than the know when
Now I’m questioning whether I should get in that
Plus lasting a lot, walk into the door, haters asking a lot
And where you from nigga? You ain’t from round here
As I peeped out the window said baby I’m right here
He mad cause I’m with her and he ain’t with her
And he stayed down the hallway and he can’t get er
So when I came out the nigga hatin on me was waitin on me
And he had mo guys, no lie
Man I knew we were both wrong, bitch but I know nothing
Finna wear both chains but I know nothing
[Hook]
But I don’t even wanna hit on you, don’t wanna know his name
I know the game, I know the game
And I don’t wanna hear all those excuses, they all the same
We should both be ashamed
Cause we know the game


And the Grammy goes to... 
'The College Dropout'
, Kanye West.
Umm, ya'll might as well get the music ready cause this is gonna take a while
. 
Umm, when I had my accident, I found out at that moment nothing in life is promised except death. If you had the opportunity to play this game of life, you need to appreciate every moment. A lot of people don't appreciate their moment until its passed.
 And then you gotta tell them Al Bundy stories, "you remember when I..." but umm. Right now, is my time and my moment, thanks to the fans, 
thanks to the accident
, thanks to God, thanks to 
Roc-A-Fella
, 
Jay Z,
 
Dame Dash
, G, 
my mother,
 Rhymefest, 
everyone that has helped me and I plan to celebrate. I plan to celebrate and scream and pop champaign every chance I get cause I'm at the Grammys baby
! 
I know... I know everybody ask me that question, they want to know, "what Kanye is getting well louder, he's gonna do something crazy." Everybody want to know what I would do if I didn't win...
 
I guess we'll never know.


[Intro: Jay-Z]
Yo fuck you, Kanye, first and foremost
For making me do this shit. Muh'fucker
Had to throw everybody out the motherfucking room
Cause they don't fucking
[Kanye]
I'd like to propose a toast
I said toast motherfucker!
[Hook: Kanye West]
And I am
(Here's to the Roc)
And they ask me, they ask me, they ask me, I tell them
(Here's to Roc-A-Fella)
Raise your glasses, your glasses, your glasses to the sky and
(Here's to the Roc)
This is the last call for alcohol, for the
(Mr. Rockefeller)
So get your ass up off the wall
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
The all around the world Digital Underground Pac
The Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer of the Roc
I take my chain, my 15 seconds of fame
And come back next year with the whole fucking game
Ain't nobody expect Kanye to end up on top
They expected that 
 to drop and then flop
Then maybe he stop savin' all the good beats for himself
Roc-A-Fella's only niggas that helped
My money was thinner than Sean Paul's goatee hair
Now Jean Paul Gaultier cologne fill the air, here
They say he 
bougie
, he 
big-headed
Would you please stop talking about how my dick head is
Flow infectious, give me 10 seconds
I'll have a buzz bigger than insects in Texas
It's funny how wasn't nobody interested
'Til the night I almost killed myself in Lexus
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Now was Kanye the most overlooked? Yes sir
Now is Kanye the most overbooked? Yes sir
Though the fans want the feeling of A Tribe Called Quest
But all they got left is this guy called West
That'll take Freeway, throw him on tracks with Mos Def
Call him
 
Kwa-li or Kwe-li,
 
I put him on songs with Jay-Z
I'm the Gap like Banana Republic and Old Navy, and oooh
It come out sweeter than old Sadie
Nice as Bun-B when I met him at the Source awards
Girl he had with him - ass coulda won the horse awards
And I was almost famous,
 
now everybody love Kanye
I'm almost Raymond
Some say he arrogant. Can y'all blame him?
It was straight embarrassing how y'all played him
Last year shoppin my demo, I was tryin' to shine
Every motherfucker told me that I couldn't rhyme
Now I could let these dream killers kill my self-esteem
Or use my arrogance as the steam to power my dreams
I use it as my gas, so they say that I'm gassed
But without it I'd be last, so I ought to laugh
So I don't listen to the suits behind the desk no more
You niggas wear suits cause you can't dress no more
You can't say shit to Kanye West no more
I rocked 20,000 people, I was just on tour, nigga
I'm Kan, the Louis Vuitton Don
Bought my mom a purse, now she Louis Vuitton Mom
I ain't play the hand I was dealt, I changed my cards
I prayed to the skies and I changed my stars
I went to the malls and I balled too hard
"Oh my god, is that a black card?"
I turned around and replied, "Why yes
But I prefer the term African American Express"
Brains, power, and muscle, like Dame, Puffy, and Russell
Your boy back on his hustle, you know what I've been up to
Killin y'all niggas on that lyrical shit
Mayonnaise colored Benz, I push Miracle Whips
[Hook]
"... last call for alcohol, for my niggas"
[Outro]
So this 
A&R
 over at 
Roc-A-Fella
, named 
Hip Hop
Picked the "Truth" beat
 for 
Beanie
. 
And I was in the session with him
I had my demo with me. You know, like I always do
I play the songs, he's like "Who that spittin?"
I'm like "It's me." He's like "Oh, well okay."
Uhh, he started talkin to me on the phone, going back and forth
Just askin me to send him beats
And I'm thinking he's trying to get into managing producers
Cause he had 
this other kid
 named 
Just Blaze
 he was messin with
And um, he was friends with my mentor, 
No ID
And No ID told him, "Look man, you wanna mess with Kanye
You need to tell him that you like the way he rap"
[No ID: "Yo, you wanna sign him, tell him you like how he rap"]
I was all, I dunno if he was gassin' me or not
But he's like he wanna manage me as a rapper AND a producer
[Hiphop: "I'll sign you as a producer and a rapper"], 
I'm like oh shit
I was messin with, uh, 
D-Dot
 also
People were like this, started talking about the 
ghost production
But that's how I got in the game
If it wasn't for that, I wouldn't be here
So you know, after they picked that Truth beat
I was figuring I was gonna do some more work
But shit just wasn't poppin off like that
I was stayin in Chicago, I had my own apartment
I be doin like, just beats for local acts
Just to try to keep the lights on, and then to go out and buy
Get a 
Pelle Pelle
 
off lay-away,
 
get some Jordans or something
Or get a 
TechnoMarine
, that's what we wore back then
I made this one beat where I sped up this Harold Melvin sample
I played it for Hip over the phone, he's like, "Oh, yo that shit is crazy
Jay might want it for this compilation album he doin, called The Dynasty."
And at that time, like the drums really weren't soundin right to me
So I went and um, 
I was listening to Dre 
 at that time
And really I just, like bit the drums off "Xxplosive" and put it like
With it sped up, sampled, and now it's kind of like my whole style
When it started, when he rapped on "This Can't be Life."
And that was like, really the first beat of that kind
That was on the "Dynasty" album.
 I could say that was the
The resurgence of the soul sound
You know, I got to come in and track the beat
And at the time I was still with my other management
I really wanted to roll with Hip Hop
Cause I, I just needed some fresh air, you know what I'm sayin
Cause I been there for a while, I appreciated what they did for me
But, you know there's a time in every man's life where he gotta make a change
Try to move up to the next level. And that day I came and I tracked the beat
And I got to meet Jay-Z and he said, "Oh you a real soulful dude"
[Jay-Z: "Oh you a real soulful dude, man"]
 And he, uh, played the song
Cause he already spit his verse by the time I got to the studio
You know how he do it, one take
. 
And he said
[Jay-Z: "Check this out, tell me what you think of this, right here"]
"Tell me what you think of this." And I heard it, and I was thinking like
Man, I really wanted more like of the simple type Jay-Z
I ain't want like the, the more introspective, complicated rhy- or the
In my personal opinion.
 
So he asked me, "What you think of it?"
[Jay-Z: "so what you think of this?"] And I was like, "Man that shit tight,"
You know what I'm sayin', man what I'mma tell him? I was on the train
Man, you know.
 So after that I went back home. And man I'm, I'm just
In Chicago, I'm trying to do my thing. You know, I got groups. I got
Acts I'm trying to get on, and like there wasn't nothin really like
Poppin' off the way it should have been. 
One of my homies that was one
Of my artists, he got signed. But it was supposed to really go through
My production company, but he ended up going straight with the
Company. So, like I'm just straight holdin' the phone, gettin' the bad
News that dude was tryin' to leave my company. And I got evicted at
The same time. So I went down and tracked the beats from him, I took
That money, came back, packed all my shit up in a U-Haul, maybe about
Ten days before I had to actually get out.
 So I ain't have to deal
With the landlord cause he's a jerk. Me and my mother drove to
[Mother: "Come on, let's just go"] Newark, New Jersey. I hadn't even
Seen my apartment. I remember I pulled up [Mother: "Kanye, baby, we're
Here"], I unpacked all my shit. 
You know, we went to Ikea,
 
I bought a
Bed, I put the bed together myself.
 I loaded up all my equipment, and
The first beat I made was, uh, "Heart of the City."
And Beans was still working on his album at that time
, 
so I came up
There to Baseline,
 
it was Beans' birthday
, matter of fact, and I
Played like seven beats. And, you know I guess he was in the zone
He already had the beats that he wanted, I had did 
"Nothing Like It"
 already at that time
But then Jay walked in.
 
I remember he had a Gucci bucket
Hat on. I remember it like, like it was yesterday.
 
And Hiphop said
"yo play that one beat for him." And I played 'Heart of the City.' And
Really I made 'Heart of the City,' I really wanted to give that beat
To DMX.
 [Hiphop: "No I think Jay gon' like this one right here"]. And
I played another beat, and I played another beat. 
And I remember that
Gucci bucket, he took it and like put it over his face
 
and made one of
Them faces like 'OOOOOOOOOOH.'
 
Two days later I'm in Baseline
And I seen Dame. Dame didn't know who I was and I was like
"yo what's up I'm Kanye." 
[Dame: "Yo, you that kid, Kanye?"]
"You that kid that gave all them beats to Jay? 
Yo, this nigga got
Classics" [Dame: "Jay got classics, G."].
 You know I ain't talkin
Shit. I'm like "oh shit." 
And all this time I'm starstruck, man
. I'm
Still thinking 'bout, you know I'm picturing these niggas on the show
The Streets is Watching, I'm lookin, these were superstars in my
Eyes. And they still are, you know.
 So, Jay came in and he spit all
These songs like in one day, and in two days... I gotta bring up one
Thing, you know, come back to the story, the day I did the 'Can't be
Life' beat on track, I remember 
Lenny S,
 he had some 
Louis Vuitton
Sneakers on, he think he fly.
 And Hip Hop was there, I think 
Ty-Ty
,
John Meneilly
, a bunch of people. I didn't know all these people at the
Time they was in the room, and I said, "yo Jay I could rap." And I
Spit this rap that said, uh 
"I'm killin y'all niggas on that lyrical
Shit. Mayonnaise colored Benz, I push miracle whips." And I saw his
Eyes light up when I said that line.
 But you know the rest, the rap
Was like real wack and shit, so that's all the response. He said "man
That was tite." [Jay-Z: "That, that was cool. That was hot."]. That
Was it. You know, I ain't get no deal then, hehe. Okay, fast
Forward. 
So, Blueprint, H to the Izzo, my first hit single.
 And I just
Took that proudly, built relationships with people. 
My relationship
With Kweli I think was one of the best ones to ever happen to my career as a rapper. Because, you know, of course later he allowed me
To go on tour with him. Man, I appre-- I love him for that.
 
And at
This time, you know I didn't have a deal, I had songs, and I had
Relationships with all these A&R's
, and 
they wanted beats from me, so
They'd call me up, I'd play them some beats. "Gimme a beat that sound
Like Jay-Z." You know, they dick riders. Whatever.
 
So I'll play them
These post-Blueprint beats or whatever and then I'll play my shit. I'll
Be like, "yo but I rap too."
 Hey, 
I guess they was lookin' at me crazy
Cause you know, cause I ain't have a jersey on or whatever
Everybody out there listen here. I played them 'Jesus Walks' and they
Didn't sign me.
 You know what happened, it was some A&R's that fucked
With me though, but then like the heads, it'd be somebody at the
Company that'll say "naw." 
Like, Dave Lighty fucked with me,
 my
Nigga Mel brought me to a bunch of labels. 
Jessica Rivera, man
[Jessica: "Man, you niggas is stupid if y'all don't sign Kanye, for
Real."].
 I'm not gonna say nothin to mess my promotion up ["Y'all
Niggas is stupid"]. Let's just say I didn't get my deal. 
The nigga
That was behind me, I mean, he wasn't even a nigga, you know?
 
The
Person who actually kicked everything off was Joe 3H from Capitol
Records. He wanted to sign me really bad.
 [Joe: "We gonna change the
Game, buddy."] 
Dame was like, "yo you got a deal with Capitol, okay
Man, just make sure it's not wack." [Dame: "you gotta make sure it's
Not wack."]
. Then one day I just went ahead and played it, I wanted to
Play some songs, cause you know Cam was in the room, 
Young Guru
, and
Dame was in the room. So I played... actually it's a song that you'll
Never hear, but maybe I might use it. So, it's called '
Wow.'
"I go to Jacob with 25 thou, you go with 25 hundred, wow
I got eleven plaques on my walls right now
You got your first gold single, damn, nigga, wow."
Like the chorus went. Don't bite that chorus, I might still use it. 
So
I play that song for him, and he's like "oh shit" [Dame: "Oh shit
It's not even wack."] "I ain't gonna front, it's kinda hot." [Dame:
"it's actually kinda hot."]
. Like they still weren't looking at me
Like a rapper. 
And I'm sure Dame figured, 'like man. If he do a whole
Album, if his raps is wack at least we can throw Cam on every song and
Save the album, you know
. So uh Dame took me into the office, and he's
Like "yo man, we, we on a brick, we on a brick" [Dame: "you don't
Wanna catch a brick"]. You gotta be under an umbrella, you'll get rained
On. I told Hiphop and Hiphop was all, "oh, word?" Actually, even with
That I was still about to take the deal with Capitol cause it was
Already on the table and cause of my relationship with 
3H.
 That, you
Know, cause I told him I was gonna do it, and I'm a man of my word, I
Was gonna roll with what I said I was gonna do. Then, you know, I'm
Not gonna name no names, but people told me, 
"oh he's just a producer
Rapper"
 and told 3H that told the heads of the Capitol, and right--
The day I'm talking about, I planned out everything I was gonna do
Man, I had picked out clothes, I already started booking studio
Sessions, I started arranging my album, thinking of marketing schemes
Man I was ready to go.
 And they had Mel call me, they said
"yo... Capitol pulled on the deal" [Mel: "Yo, Capitol pulled out on
The deal."]. And, you know I told them that Roc-A-Fella was interested
And I don't know if they thought that was just something I was saying
To gas them up to try to push the price up or whatever. 
I went up... I
Called G, I said, "man, you think we could still get that deal with Roc-A-Fella?"


[Hook: John Legend]
Last night I dreamt of an angel
I almost passed away your yesterday but I'm blessed today
On top of the world acts so painful
It ain't no mystery, it's meant for me to make history
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Niggas thought I couldn't rhyme but I tricked 'em
My pulse quickened, I...
Brought myself outta last place, I Michael Vick'd 'em
Niggas thought I let 'em down like Tyson
I got the belt like Lewis
I took these beats, I passed 'em to myself, I'm Kordell Stewart
Back on the corner, back on the block
The Quincy Jones of hip hop
, 
it's my time like Warner
Since I shine like Shyne in '99 with his
A lot of people talkin' real outta like with this
There's a war going on a few bitches wanna start with me
Showing the New World, I'mma Order even more of me
So I can live forever like diamonds
Throw your diamonds up
, 
cause almost dying ain't stop me from rhyming
I hate a deadbeat nigga that rely on his man
See he'll lie on his dick but won't lie on the stand
And go to every single barbershop and lie to the fans
So it's time for Kanye to put the Chi on again
I'm the 2003, Do Or D-I-E
They trying to say the best nigga is Twista than me
It's all R.O.C., it's all family tree
I got that new G5 he got that new Hum-Vee
Incorporate Young Hov and that's 
And 
 is 3 mil right now
So cut all that, "I don't like Bonnie & Clyde shit out
Listen
[John Legend + Sample]
Oooh hooo
I got nowhere to
Oooh hooo
I got nowhere to
Oooh hooo
I got nowhere to
[Kanye West]
Dawg, there's nowhere to hide
All I got is my pride
I almost died
I keep that 2Pac feeling alive
You have no idea how I'm feeling inside
It's the Roc throw your diamonds up in the sky
[Hook: John Legend]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
Little girl
(A ha ha ha ha...)
Please stop your crying
[Hook]
I'll be late for that, baby I'll wait for that
If you had a taste of that, you'd probably pay for that
I'm comin' in when I feel like
So turn this motherfucker up only if it feels right
I'll be late for that, I can't wait for that
I think I was made for that
So I'm comin' in when I feel like
So turn this muh'fucker up only if it feels right
[Verse 1]
Stop all your blood clot cryin',
 
I was flyin'
Made it to school with barely 'nuff time to sign in
Yeah I hear the alarm
, 
yeah I hear ya mom
Yeah yeah, I don't wan' be broke when I'm 31
They said the best classes go to the fastest
Sorry Mr. West there's no good classes, and that's what yo' ass get
Not even electives?
 
Not even pre-requits?
You mean I missed my major by a couple of seconds?
Now I'm in the shop class or the basket weavin
With all the rest of the muh'fuckers underachievin'
Man, this is an insult
I went to junior high with all of them and they been slow
If I can catch the beat then slow down the tempo
Just throw this at the end if I'm too late for the intro
Will I make it from the student loans to a Benzo?
Like old folks pissin, I guess it all depends
, oh, oh
Stop your cryin baby
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
You know when you be late you miss all the lights
That's right (that's right) that's right (that's right)
And when you get back she gon' start up a fight
That night (that night) that night
Baby it's too late for that, lately I've been takin it slow
Try and make it to the party 'fore the guest list close
With the freshest hoes, the professors know
We about to get real unprofessional
Like them eskimos
, 
what would you do for a Klondike?
Or two dykes that look Christina Milian-like
Hm, I'll be on time for that
I ain't thought of no line that could rhyme with that
Yo, I'll be there in five minutes, five hours later
I'll be there in five minutes
, 
go 'head ride with it
I'm so live with it, look how I did it
Been bullshittin but I finally arrived with it
I know it's late and I took all year but
You can stop complainin cause I'm finally here
, yeah


[Intro]
(Brand New) x5
[Hook: Kanye West] x2
I don't like it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it - get off my (brand new) dick
[Verse: Kanye West]
They say your attitude determines your latitude
I'm high as a motherfucker - fly as a motherfucker
And still the motherfucker you love to hate
But can't - because you love what I make
Now ain't - that about a bitch
And I'mma talk shit until I'm out of hits
They don't want to turn they speakers up they claim I ain't deep enough
All that talkin' I feed off of - keep it up
I'm relaxin' my feet is up - I'm leavin' you haters
Like when Shaq left the Lakers just to "Heat" it up
I state the stats to stunt - I don't need to front
I make history e'ry day - I don't need a month
The survey says - by the streets according
Kanye's just important as Michael Jordan
Was to the NBA when he was scorin'
Ralph Lauren was borin' before I wore him and..
[Hook: Kanye West]
I don't like it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it - get off my (brand new) dick
[Hook: Rhymefest]
Yo wait - I don't want it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it - get off my (brand new) dick
[Verse: Rhymefest]
Now some women hit the mall and some shop at the thrift store
Some of 'em mix and match and make it look like they get more
Some of y'all know you wear a sixteen - squeezin' into a six
Damn - what you make them jeans rip for?
I guess she's lookin' for a brand new man who
Ain't always gotta sit down cause he can't stand you
Boo - this the brand new jam to dance to
While you givin' me "Head" like shampoo - come as you came
Skip the brand name - I won't brand you
What you do here'll stay here like Cancun
Besides your breasts is augmented - I like things authentic
Look at all my whips, they're all vintage
I got a loft with a view of the sea
See I take some more shit and make it new for me
Pimp it out like Xzibit to the (oomph) degree
Why spend and arm and a leg - we can kick it for free you see..
[Hook: Rhymefest] x2
I don't like it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it - get off my (brand new) dick nigga
[Verse: Rhymefest]
??? bustin' and then hit 'em - fuck the cynicism
I'm quick to give y'all niggas constructive criticism
Like "Wait - you basically suck" - 
his mother said "My son wanna rhyme!"
I'm like "Ma'am - I don't agree with that decision
Nothin' against him - but if he step I got to diss him
I listen to that weak shit - all of it - I can't follow it
[Barf) Excuse me - I'm "whack"tose intolerant
"I worked too hard to get my baby ballin' kid!"
Down the fives - had me blue collar poppin' it
Now I'm in the club - and look who I get it poppin' with
Me and 'Ye go back like crew cuts
He hook me up - as long as I don't ask him for too much
But even he know 'Fest is layin' it down
Cause this is just an old beat he had layin' around!
[Hook: Kanye West]
I don't like it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it - get off my (brand new) dick
[Hook: Rhymefest] x2
Kanye I don't like it unless it's (brand new)
You might see me in my (brand new) whip
With my (brand new) bitch, pumpin' my (brand new) shit
You don't like it - get off my (brand new) dick homey


[Intro] (T.I.)
Want to be your man
, please...tell you why
(I know what y'all thinking)
Doop doop doop doop doop doop
(First he can't be my man, now he want to be my man)
(I wish this nigga make his mind up)
Can't live my life...tell you why
(All my niggas man we gonna have be 21 bout this shit you know)
Oh baby, oh baby
(We gonna step out the track for one sec, one sec)
[Verse 1]
Now what I got to say, seal with a kiss
Know I can't be your man why I feel like this
What I need with a woman when I live like this
Different chicks running in and out the crib like this
Maybe five, maybe six, seven, eight'll be enough
Plus the twins make ten but for you I give it up
Set times to the side just for us to live it up
Walking out of Ralph Lauren, 
purple label
 linen, yuh
It's hard for me to discuss what I had vision for us
Lots of trust, and a crib worth a couple million plus
So what if I got a pass, labelled a dirt bag
By the minute, hearts I broken and women I hurt bad
Might I add 
Christian Dior
 and fur jackets
A part of the package, but still far from a marriage
It's easy to lose balance when hearts just start carin
With the attractions apparent, its hard to stop starin
[Hook]
Hey baby let me tell you sumthin, come here I need to tell you sumthin
(Tell you why)
Hey shorty let me tell you sumthin, wanna talk need to tell you sumthin
(doop doop doop doop doop doop doop)
Lil mama let me tell you sumthin, I wanna tell you sumthin
(Can't live my life...without you)
Hey baby let me tell you sumthin, Shorty I've been meanin to tell you sumthin
(Oh baby, oh baby)
[Verse 2]
If I can get a little bit of your time, shorty
I got some shit I want to get off my mind, and I know
You get enough of niggas hollerin ya fine (hey
Ask...ask ya friend man, man I got this)
Introductions seem to bug you, them partnas of mine
My bad, I know you think I'm probably lyin
Then
 
I'mma
 stop to conversate, 
relates
 all of 
ya
 time...man
Look, but half of that shit is all in ya mind
Say you should follow your heart and I'm follow my mind
But anyway, when I see yo' face
Im thinking three or four days in Montego Bay
At the Half Moon, but I know she gon' say
I already have too many hoes, I know
But if I had you, all the dough I'd blow
On 
eleven karat pink stones
 trillion row
I wanna be the reason why you showing ya teeth
Without a worry in the world when you rolling with me
[Hook]
{*Roger Troutman's - "I Want To Be Your Man" plays*}


[Hook]
Just gots me a crib and a new car too
I got the ring, but I gotta have you babe
C'mon let's get married babe
C'mon let's get married
Let's have some kids with a dog with a house
A lil white fence, just like this, babe
C'mon let's get married babe
Let's get married
[Jagged Edge]
Meet me at the alter
In your white dress (your white dress)
You won't ever need another man
You never, ever want from another thing, no
I've been feeling you
I must confess (must confess)
Ain't no gonna break this thang up
I ain't going nowhere, no
Cuz when I think about you and think about me
Plain to see that we might as well do it (do it)
[Hook]
[Jagged Edge]
Said you want some karats
Babe, how bout ten (how bout ten)
Is it good enough for you to brag on
When you show your friends (show your friends)
I just want to be with you
Girl there ain't I think I won't do
Want you to be the one to say I do
We can start a family
Cuz when I think about you and think about me
Plain to see that we might
 as well do it (do it)
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
With my tuxedo
He asked me do you take this
Woman to hold and keep the safest
Plus to lace her, floss wit paper
Crib and a car, man you know tha basics
Diamonds your bestfriend
That makes sense because
Your a princess and you deserve the princess cuts
But as long as you gots your defenses up
You can never get the love that was meant for ya
Shouldn't you know that I use to come through wanna
Club
Real thugs don't never fall in love
Always on the g-o, for the d-o
Man I had to take t-o, smits some cutie
Since my money get right theses days
I wanna give you more ice than the ice capades
I gots the church, the ring
There's something I'm forgetting
Oh, we gotta have J.E. sing at the wedding
[Hook]
He's straight out of a neighborhood where niggas hate
They see you, go and eat your dinner off a bigger plate
Their stomaches ache while he's loungin' in the big estate
And he hops in a hundred thousand when a nigga 'scape
House's with a bigger gate, houndin' him's a big mistake
He won't surrender, he'll rather give up a rib to break
'Cuz he remembers when they wouldn't lend a helpin' hand
'Til he was sittin' on green like a Celtic fan
Created a buzz 'til where you gotta mention his name
When you discussin' the illest player that's in the game
And he's ridin' with Em, 50 Cent, Doc and them
G-Unit Records, ain't no motherfuckin' stoppin' them...


[Produced by Deezle & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
Straight off the block with it
Eagle Street to be specific
I'm peeping at your people different
I'm pay my dues you keep the difference
I can see the end and the beginning
So I'm not racing I'm just sprinting
Cause I don't wanna finish
They diminish I replenish
Scientific, 
I'm out this world ho
I wear bright red like a girl toe
No homo, fingernails dirty
I've been counting dirty money since 12:30
A-M, weigh them, if they short take them
Right back and spray him amen, yea
I just do my Wayne
And every time I do it I do my thing, yea
Believe that like a true story
Rims big, make the car look like it's two stories
If I hop out - that be suicide
No back seats, call that paralyze
I don't have a spine, I don't fantasize
I mastermind then go after mine
You see I handle mine I dismantle mine
I tote a tool box bitch it's hammer time
So excuse me as I nail em to something
Just repeal em I'm kill em, someone tell em that I'm a kill em
I'm a feel his mother's mama can't tell 'em when doctors can't
Heal 'em, I'm a kill 'em and we sell em I know you smell him
So if you want it you could just yell it, be in the morning at your tele
Whole keys go for twenty, half a key go for eleven
After me there will be nothing
, 
I am legend and I Will Smith
Now that's how ya let the beat build bitch
[Hook: repeat 3X]
Now that how you let the beat build bitch
[Verse 2]
Just a snare and a 808
Weezy Baby on the mic, D.O.A
Ok, I'd like to thank Kanye
And my nigga Deezle
 
for giving me this diesel
Like a F-350 tank never empty
Damn everybody in the bank act friendly
Used to think my shit didn't stink boy was I wrong
Approving million dollar deals from my iPhone
I'm take it one two way back
Like a silk wife beater and a wave cap
Like the wave pool at Blue Bayou
And I wave fool as I blew by you
Hello hi you I can buy you
But I wouldn't try you
 
feed you to Piru
I know what I'm doing I show and prove and show improvement
And I know just to go through it don't amount to your influent,
 whatever
How you wanna do it? We can do it like we late
Ah 
wait Deezle let me just get the 808
As I hit the kill switch
Now that's how you let the beat build bitch
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Now everybody say
I am the best rapper alive
I am the best rapper alive
And I will eat you alive; think I'm lyin?
Damn I'mma get in a nigga chest like a bunch of phlegm
Like a fucking ram on the hunt for lamb
, I'm a dump 'em man
In a dumpster can, 
you ain't a soldier ask Uncle Sam
, 
hair nappy like Pam
Nigga fuck your plan, fuck yo' man, you ain't a pimp unless you get the same bitch
To fuck your man and fuck your clan, and all my bitches know that's my plan
Oh god damn there's my sample - let it play like it's my band
Gotta get it cleared suck my dick with red lipstick and don't let it smear
And 
I got a lot of tattoos, I meant every tear
And I'm still on that street shit
 back to the beat bitch
[Hook]


Yeah, check check, testing
It's clear out there, yeah
It's like I'm hang glidin' over the hood, ha
Never worry, ohhh, no, no, no
[Verse 1]
Check, let there be light
No gang bangin' in New York tonight
Just murals of Biggie Smalls, bigger than life
Turn up the kid mic cause ya'll ain't listenin' right
What's all this talk that Nas got bought
I'd rather outline my body in white chalk
Ain't nobody been where I been
, 
they at a stand still
This is all overseen by my man Will
[Hook: Tre Williams]
As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death
I know that I ain't got much time left
And they don't really wanna see the good in me
Ain't satisfied until they see the fool in me
And I know my business, so my sins great
And I thank the hood for all the love they gave
And I forgive 'em all, they did they best to hate
Oh, let there be light
[Verse 2]
This ain't the glorified, just paintin' the street picture
There's no guidance or Bibles, just blunts and swishers
Gillettes cut 'caine in kitchen
Now every rapper wanna claim he hang with Kenneth "Supreme" Griffith
It's like the same difference except when niggas get arraigned
They don't want the same sentence, niggas get to snitchin
If I could reverse demises and turn falls to rises
And bring back the niggas who was livest
Old hustlers, reminiscing on better days
They home, doing nothing, might as well be in a cage
Hating on young brothers
, 
one foot in the grave
They used to love us till we found our own way thru the maze
New York, set trippin and flaggin
Got the West Coast laughing, now Esco's asking
What happened? 
My homegirl from upper Manhattan
She remembers the quarters that's Latin, alotta rat-a-tat-tatting
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
The son of the audio cassette era
, 
tech wearer
Bullets and begets
, 
Benz Bose Speaker Terror
'Til man I get mine till I'm dead, so I can drive somethin' red
Like that horse standing on it's hind legs
Since Arnold and Willis in they bunk beds
I wanted bread like Wonder,
 
not manned-a-wanno like the parent of Lionel
Nas is the Ghetto American Idol
No matter what you do you're never getting my title
I can't sound smart cause y'all run away
They say I ain't hungry no more and I don't talk about 'ye
Like there's no other way for a ex-hustler
Cake getter, the ex-wig splitter to touch you, I beg to differ
When you're four years into the game, we can have a conversation
Eight years in the game, I invite ya on vacation
Ten years in the game, after I've enjoyed my fame
Only then I let ya pick my brain, niggas
[Bridge: Nas] + (Tre Williams)
[And I] Right about now [And I] (They don't really know)
[And I] (They don't really see) I don't even deal with all that garbage
(No, no, no) We getting real right, ya know?
[And I] (Though I walk through the valley) That is Tre Williams ladies and gentlemen
[And I] (They should fear no) [And I] (no, no-oh)
Focus on good things man, good times, Heh-heh, alright
[Hook] - 2X (with alterations)
Oh let it be, let it be, yeah
Let it be, let it be


[Produced By: Don Jazzy, Jeff Bhasker, Kanye West, Mike Dean & Q-Tip]
[Hook: Beyoncé]
We gonna take it to the moon, take it to the stars
How many people you know can take it this far?
I'm supercharged,
 
we about to take this whole thing to Mars
Now we gonna take it to the moon, take it to the stars
We don't know what we could do to make it this far
So many scars,
 
we about to take this whole thing to Mars
[Verse 1: Kanye]
Lift off, lift off, takin' my coat off
Showing my tattoos, I'm such a show off, huh
I feel the pain and then roll off
I got the whole city, they about to go off
How many niggas with me up and in the aisle?
How many people want to roll on me now?
Like you know na na na, you know me by now
Know me, know me by now
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye]
Lift off, like you know na na na
You know me by now, know me, know me by now
You know me know me by now, know me, know me by now
[Jay-Z]
Lift off
Rappers hear 
, they gon' be pissed off
Earth is boring to 'em, shit is making my dick soft
When you Earnhart as me eventually you hit a big wall
5-4-3-2 we need fuel, lift off
[Hook]
[Outro]
20 seconds and counting
T minus 15 seconds, guidance is internal
12, 11, 10, 9, ignition sequence start
6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 0, all engines running
Lift off, we have a lift off, lift off


[Kanye West]
I walk through the halls of the school and it’s cool to be known by many for my rapping ability
But what about the brothers who ain’t got it like me
Making money off the trade
You could say I had it made
Drugs are on the rise
And it’s not a big surprise
You see no soul in a young brother’s eyes
Trying to be hard by the streets, but the streets kinda hard
But here's another factor we wanna disregard
Black-on-black is a stab in my back
It really hurts my soul when I hear about that


[Kanye West]
Yeah a-yo Fab
I can tell they ain't used to this
I can tell they ain't
I can tell they ain't
I can tell they ain't used to this
I can tell they ain't used to this
With ya boy the Louie Vuitton Don
A.K.A. Marty Mint Fly
And I'm on my fly shit
Straight from the Chi bitch
I can tell they ain't
I can tell they ain't they used to this
[Hook: Fabolous]
You keep askin' questions
Dumb ass suggestions
Must ain't never lived like this
Why the funny faces
Nah the funny taste
You just ain't never drink like this
You can't even lie
You probably got high
But you ain't never smoked like this
I see shoppin' bags
Might pop some tags
But you was never fly like this
[Fabolous]
I'm a let your wife peep game
Get used to this shit
Introduce her to shit
Like Life meet Lane
Lane meet Life
Y'all two get acquainted
Its so cool bein' my new chick ain't it?
Let me explain it
I don't make up shit
I just Lorraine it maybe Jacob shit
Make a 36D from a A cup bitch
Sleep with me you might wake up with (With what?)
A set of keys to a pad and a Jag
Fendi sprees Paddington bags
Cockiness to add in your swag
Take a look at what you had and then gag
Like eww
Anybody know a girl that don't like heels? (Do you?)
That's like askin' is the nose on Mike real (Is it?)
Hell naw
Well ma
I'm here to catch you
They say men are dogs you know what I'm here to fetch you
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
Uh Roc-A-Fella
Black people usin' black cars isn't it ironic?
Smokin' weed on the yacht isn't it the chronic?
Plus the hoes good
Its feelin' like Rosewood
That black baller bullshit, we on it
Cops will pull you over like isn't there a problem?
No sir
But I realize the windows so blur
That you might've mistaked a nigga for a chauffeur
Ya might mistake that backseat for a sofur (sofa)
Now the dreads said to rap on everything
Cause he know that I snap on everything
Listen, when my flow commissions
It caused the commissioner to throw a cap on everything
My accountant said
If I get the crib on the side of the mountain
Right beside the fountain
And decide on the Phantom
I'll go broker than Hammer
Performin' in pajamas
Damn it
[Hook]
[Fabolous]
My flow got teeth marks in it and I know who the biters is
[Kanye West]
Can't blame them but whoever they writers is
[Fabolous]
Matter fact whoever the dick riders is
[Kanye West]
Get your own style don't Winona Ryder his
[Fabolous]
Ferrari Fab or you could say Spyder Spizz
[Kanye West]
SLR pullin' up on the side of his
[Fabolous]
Shorties success ain't even near the height of his
This dudes paper thinner than Easy Wider is
[Kanye West]
I made me laugh yo
But if you do the math though
[Fabolous]
I've been gettin money since Kojak had an Afro
[Kanye West]
I've been fresh since
Will Smith was a Fresh Prince
[Fabolous]
Had hoes when Kermit was a tadpole
[Kanye West]
So of course the officers wanna off us
[Fabolous]
Came off the corner to up in the corner office
[Kanye West]
I thought it was livin'
[Fabolous]
They call it ballin'
[Kanye West]
It been like this
[Fabolous]
Where the hell all of y'all been?
[Hook]
[Kanye West - x2]
I can tell they ain't used to this
I can tell they ain't
I can tell they ain't
I can tell they ain't used to this


Hey Jimmy, where you going?
I don't know where I'm goin'
My Dad died, and he left me his degrees
My mom would always say "Dad, why don't you work?"
But he just kept learning
All the other kids' parents were working and saving up money for school
And I was actually in school all while my dad was in school!
He was so greedy with degrees, he took my degree
And now I'm just glad he left me these
Because all the regular homeless people have newspaper, and look what I have
These are documented
My father left them for me
And I'm going to leave them to my kids
I'm going to learn too
I'm going to get super smart, so I, too, can die without money
But I'll be the smartest dead guy!
Who has that?


[Michelle]
What is going on and it's Michelle LA's 97-01 radio is what you're listening to. First thing I walk in the door and right behind me here he is Kanye West
[Kanye]
What up
[Michelle]
How are you?
[Kanye]
I'm awesome
[Michelle]
I know you're doing a ton of interviews right now, this is the first time you've been to Amp radio, so I have to say thank you
[Kanye]
Okay, awesome
[Michelle]
This is pretty major and, I don't know, you probably have no way of knowing this, but the very first song I ever played on amp radio, about four years ago, was "Paranoid"
[Kanye]
Well thank you very much
[Michelle]
Absolutely we're huge fans around here
[Kanye]
Thank you, I appreciate that
[Michelle]
Thanks for coming in. So what's the story behind all of a sudden we're seeing you in front of us? Because you haven't done a whole lot of these kinds of interviews but now here you are, so we're thrilled to have you here. You just feel like going out and saying hello?
[Kanye]
Yeah, that's it
[Michelle]
That's awesome. I dig that. So you're out on the Yeezus tour right now which, first, your album is awesome. The live show sold out at Staples on Saturday night, you got another one and then you've got Anaheim on Friday, so tell me a little bit about what to expect at the tour stops, because like I just told you before we went on the air, I saw a little bit of the clips but I feel like it doesn't do it the justice of actually being there and experiencing the show in the moment
[Kanye]
Yeah even if I explain it...you know it's just like creativity central. It's an example of like what DONDA can do - that's my creative company - it's an example of what happens when you put amazing thinkers in a room together and eliminate what they normally do and all the cliches that people slip into and challenge everyone in that room to come up with something completely new, and that's what is, completely new. You know we we experiment with things, and they get better, and it's going to get better as it goes, but if I have an idea, I just do it. I just go for it
[Michelle]
Yeah that's cool, there's a certain fearlessness about you which I really dig. Do you feel like you get crap for that a little bit? The people misunderstand you?
[Kanye]
Yeah I'm not fearless, I just have courage, bravery. Like I have fear, but I overcome my fear. I know how to swim through backlash. I know how to float, I can tread water through backlash. I don't care about backlash if anything, because it's all given me power. 
Negative, positive, it's all energy and I can use energy
[Michelle]
What really inspires you? I know you're really creative in so many different arenas but what do you look for, what would spark you?
[Kanye]
God. Number one inspiration, God. How can you get something to the you know the greatest. He's the greatest creator of all time, so - if you're being creative - my greatest inspiration is God. He made our universe you know ? So you look that far and say, "if you gotta push hard to create on a more major scale," nothing is more major then the creator. He's given us the power of free will and the ability to create our own space, right
Sometimes people say like, "it seems like you're not satisfied with just creating music," well look at what Howard Hughes did, look what David Stern did, look what Steve Jobs did, look what Da Vinci did, look what Michelangelo did. I have this platform now at age 36 to really put out a lot a creative ideas. Certain people who are not giving me a shot or not backing me, and I can meet with all the billionaires in the world and people just look at me like it's not me, like I haven't created what I've created
So I had to apologize to all the guys in the world for my engagement because I turned up so much on it
, but when you 
go on Jimmy Kimmel and say, "hey I'm a creative genius,"
 I don't think people really understood what I was talking about. So let me make it so y'all can understand what I'm talking about when I say "creative genius" because that's my title
[Michelle]
Do you think you're misunderstood in that aspect? Do you think people just take things the wrong way?
[Kanye]
They just never heard it before. They never tasted that flavor yet
[Michelle]
I just think it's awesome because you have a certain thing about you that you say what's on your mind and your true to yourself and I think a lot of people don't know what to do with that because they're not.
[Kanye]
Yeah and that's what is. If I say, "hey I'm a creative genius," I don't know any other way to explain what I do and the way I think up things and the way I have to fight to get ideas out, had to fight to get my record deal, I'm fighting to be able to make clothes, I'm fighting to be able to make films. It's mixing creativity with the fight, like an athlete.
It's okay for athletes to fight and push it, but they want the creative people to shut up and be quiet. These are the people with the real ideas, that can actually change, can reorganize, can design cities, can restructure a curriculum, can can make life easier you know. That's the part of the game I wanna be in, the "making life more awesome" [field] because I'm so blessed.
I've had so many of my dreams come true. I'm getting married to my dream girl, I have a family, I have good friends around me, I've had some opportunities and what I realized is my greatest power...so, if you asked me a question before, "why am I coming, why am I speaking," I'm not a billionaire. I may not be the richest person on the planet, I might not be the most attractive guy, I might not be the most liked, but I - right now - because of "New Slaves" and because of the position I've always taken, have the most powerful voice by a mile and I'm going to use that. I have a trillion dollars worth of voice.
[Michelle]
And that's very very valuable. So you're talking about you're influences, with God and family and your life and enjoying life and, I was thinking just how much your life has changed even in the past six months to a year and how much has that changed your daily [life]. Does that mellow you out? Change your perspective on things?
[Kanye]
I hang out wit my the girl and my daughter everyday. There's no place I'd rather be, so now even when I was thinking about the things I'm creating or the things I'm doing in business, my biggest goal is to be able to get home to my family. So even, as I'm thinking about things I'm doing for the future, it's like how can I set it up so I can just be my daughter's soccer coach. How can I put myself in that position?
[Michelle]
I can't imagine you showing up at the soccer game, I just think that would be awesome.
[Kanye]
I'm going to be a soccer coach. Like, I'm going to design the uniforms, I'm going to have to redesigned the minivan maybe [laughs]. 
Maybe me and Elon Musk can design a new type of minivan.
[Michelle]
A new Kanye West mini van. See that's a partnership you could get on board with right there.
[Kanye]
Well DONDA, we want to create everything. We have a perspective on things you see, touch, taste, and feel, just the quality of life. We want to improve the quality of life. It is a product, experience, and content company. So, a form of content could be Yeezus. That is a form of content. Experience could be the concert you went to. A product could be the Yeezy's. Those are examples of things that a collective of creative people have put together
One thing I also want to stress is that the most genius thing about the way I create is to create with other geniuses. To get out of their way. It's not a matter of ego related to any ideas. It's just, who has the best idea? We, actually, are really not ego based in any way. These are things that people put up to confuse you or distract you from what it actually is. At this point it's Michael Jordan time, it's time to go six championships in and let people know this is what we're doing. We're creating at the highest level. I might not be the number one rockstar, but I will be and create the number one creative company. The post internet Disney. The post internet Ralph Lauren


[...]
[Verse: Kanye West]
Yo mad niggas got dreams of the Lexus and coupes
Got their signing bonus and bought Tecs for the video shoot
Ayo them shits backfired before the cameraman arrived, he died
For his image
, 
now let’s start the scrimmage
In the first quarter, I sacked 25 MCs
By halftime you still got rhymes but they are diseased
They infected with 75 seconds of life left
I cremate MCs and breathe they ashes in my last breath
In a life or death situa(tion) I come through with the Chi representa(tion)
And bleed you pussies that be marked like ovula(tion)
The sensa(tion)’ll shine through your mind
Take it line for line
[...]
[Kanye West]
Yo let’s react with our mind
Kill the black-on-black crime
I’ll be taking it line for line
[...]


[Hook - 
]
They say we can't be 
 like this
For the rest of our lives
Well we gon' be living like this
For the rest of tonight
And you know they gon' be banging this shit
For the rest of our lives
Live fast (Live fast)
And die young (Die young)
Live fast (Live fast)
And die young (Die young)
Live fast
And die young
[Verse 1 - Rick Ross]
Living fast, now it's all linen rags
Hard-headed, but my top peeling back
Tinted glass on my
 
'57,
 
nigga wit' a attitude
 (Me)
Young and radical, methods are mathematical
Let my convertible marinate on the avenue
Mami, that's half a million, I'm living la vida rapido
Die young, but fuck it, we flew first class
Turned you to a rich bitch by your first glass
Up in this bitch and we lit up like a screen
Every time we hit the charts, niggas shoot up like a fiend
Stunting like we 
 with machines
What you see me waving, Vacheron Constantine
Like Mike, my Spikes stay all white
Twenty-four karat gold, eighty carats worth of ice
Ice insured, fuck life insurance
I live for the moment, and put a bullet on that
 (Bawse)
Got the club rocking like a fucking boat
I'm the pirate on this ship, all you mates got to go
Good party over here, everybody over here
You know the word travel fast, everybody know we here
All the bottles over here, even spread it over there
All the models over here, but they swallow everywhere
She came to party like it's 1999
If she died on my dick, she would live through my rhymes
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
For all my young ladies ladies that 
driving Miss Daisy
, rock the beat, baby
Hop up out the 
ERR!
 she eat up the pavement
I don't give a ERR!, baby, he crazy
I'm back by unpopular demand
Least he still popping in Japan, shopping in Milan
Hopping out the van, screams from the fans
"Yeezy, always knew you'd be on top again!"
And we 'bout to hit Jacob the Jeweler
So I can be like Slick Rick, and rule ya
Dr. Martin Louis the King, Junior
And I'mma never let the dream turn to Kruegers
My outfit so disrespectful
You can go 'head and sneeze cause my presence blessed you
I mean, we walked in this bitch so stylish
Niggas done mistook me for my stylist
And I know it's superficial and you say it's just clothes
But we shopping in that motherfucker and they just closed
So go ahead and just pose
When she walked up out the dressing room, the store just froze
And I know they tryna get they cool back
And them ghetto bitches hollin' "How you do that?"
So they could never say we never lived it
And if I see Biggie tonight, I loved every minute
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Rick Ross]
Peter Piper picking peppers, Rick pitch poems
My leather long enough to keep a thick bitch warm
When that ass is enormous, abs abnormal
And tans in the morning on sands in California
Seems like we getting money for the wrong things
Look around, Maseratis for the whole team
Look at Haiti, children dying round the clock, nigga
I sent a hundred grand, but that's a decent watch, nigga
I'm getting better, cause it woulda leased a drop, nigga
I'mma get my money right, just watch, nigga
She had a miscarriage, I couldn't cry, though
Cause you and I know she was only my side ho
Uh, I got 'em catching amnesia
Time to pull my fucking minks out the freezer
See the lynx and you just think, "Jesus!"
I'm hot 'til the day they freeze us
Young and radical, methods are mathematical
I'm multiplyin' my money through different avenues
Took many to war, shook never before
For my mother I applaud Ms. Afeni Shakur
Ice insured, fuck life insurance
Three bad bitches, don't come concurrent
Still, you know the dope won't stop
And if I die today bury me in a dope-ass watch
[Hook]


[Intro: Lil Wayne]
No homo
I say he's so sweet, make her wanna lick the wrapper
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Lollipop, lollipop
Breasts is just like Dolly Parton
She ride my spaceship 'til she hit the top
That hit the spot, 'til she ask
"How many li-i-li-i-licks do it take 'til she get to shop?"
Don't worry why my wrists got so freeze?
Tell her, "Girl, like Doritos, that's nacho cheese"
Tell her friends, "Like Fritos, I'm trying to lay"
I can't only have one
 and I ain't tryin to wait"
This a song with Wayne, so you know it's gonna melt
But you ain't finna murder me like everybody else
I'mma rap like I got some type of respect for myself
I don't do it for my health, man I do it for the belt
Man, I do it to the death, 'til the roof get melt
Hundred degrees, 
drop the roof, so the coupe don't melt
Man, the flow so cold chicken soup won't help
We need fo' mo' hoes, we need oh-oh-oh-oh!
You know what it is when we're outta town
We ball in 2 seats, and you out of bounds
So come here baby girl
You're now fuckin' with 
the best in the world
Lollipop
The best in the wo-rld
[Hook: Static Major]
She lick me like a lollipop
Shawty want a thug
Bottles in the club
Shawty wanna hump, you know I like to touch your 
lovely lady lumps
[Verse 2: Lil Wayne]
Shawty say she wanna lick the wrapper
And she gonna lick the rapper
And I just wanna act like a porno-flicking actor
I Anita Bake-her, now she caught up in that Rapture
I got so much chips, I swear they call me Hewlett Packard
I got so much chips you can have a bag if you're a snacker
Greedy mutha-fudge cake, now tell me how that fudge tastes
I do it for bloods' sake
, 
soo-woo think it's voodoo
How that roof do di-di-dissipate
, 
your girl wants to participate
She so so sophisticate, cause her brain is off the chain
And then my diamonds are in the choir, because 
they sang from off my chain
And 
my Nina just joined the gang, because, all she do is bang!
Like Ricky Martin
; 
Wayne and Kanye: pick your poison
If that woman wanna cut, then tell her I am Mr. Ointment
Tell her to make an appointment with Mr. I-Can't-Make-An-Appointment
Take my lollipop and enjoy it
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Lil Wayne]
Why would she? She probably be the odd cookie
In the plastic bag 'bout to get crushed by a building
I flushed out the feeling of me being the shit
Cause I was leaving skid marks on everywhere I sit
I am everywhere, I'm it like, Hide-n-Go
And I can go anywhere: innie, minnie, miney, mo
I'm in your neighborhood, area, CD thing, tape deck
IPod, your girlfriend - and she say I got great sex
Safe sex is great sex, better wear a latex
Cause you don't want that late text, that "I think I'm late" text
So wrap it up!
But he's so sweet she wanna lick the wrapper


[Intro]
How y'all feeling tonight?
Thank y'all for coming out to this impromptu-type performance I just set up
I love the energy in this city
This is one of my hometowns, y'all know I stayed out here, right?
But I came here for the creativity more than anything,
Because creativity fuels everything
I hate business people
People get on the phone with me and talk to me
Like "What kind of business can he do though?
What type of businnes are you doing? What's the numbers?
How much did you sell? What's the radio spins?
How much shampoo can you sell with your face on it and shit?"
Remind me again why we in this shit?
Can you remind me again why we in this shit?
Make it even more mellow, make it just the chords
[Verse 1]
Remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again why we in this shit?
I know it's for more than just to get rich.
Since when was making music about getting rich?
Since when was making art about getting rich?
I know it's easy for me to say
Because having money's not everything and not having it is
Remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again why the Grammy's could suck my dick?
Remind me who's the original superfly
And I got love for Hov but I ain't fucking with that Suit and Tie
Remind me again, remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again, remind me again why we in this shit?
Every nigga tryna get rich,
Every rapper tryna get rich
,
And every rapper always rap about fucking somebody else bitch
Remind me again why we in this shit?
Remind me again why we in this shit?
And why the Grammys can suck my dick
Suck my dick
[Verse 2]
And every motherfucking sponsor
They tryna put they logos all over the concerts and shit
For a meet and greet
And you gotta meet the execs and they daughters
And they'll show what they just bought her
Real niggas don't live too long in this shit
Real niggas don't live too long in this shit
Real niggas don't live too long in this shit
Real niggas don't live too long in this shit
Real niggas don't live too long in this shit
They say "Ayo, you coming on too strong in this bitch"
They always talking about what I'm doing wrong in this shit
Well I can give a fuck everything
I can give a fucking anything
Remind me why we in this shit
I lost my motherfucking momma
So I can give a fuck about your comments
I promise, I promise
Cause we all gonna die one day
But I'mma live my life my way!
Remind me why we in this shit, please
[Verse 3]
Please, can I sell your drink for you, please
"So, you can help me put on a better show please, corporations?
Can you please support me? Please?
Me, Kanye West. 
I swear I’m a nice nigga now
I swear I’ll put the pink polo back on,
I swear to you. Please. Just for 3 million
I need it so bad. I need a pool in my backyard!
So I’ll tell all my fans your shit is cool
And if they believe in me, then they should also believe in you
"‘Did we get the check yet? Hold on, I gotta call the business manager
Did the corporations send the check?
What is my public rating? Are people liking me again?
Enough to get some money from the corporations?
Are they liking me, is it ok now?
They forgot about the whole Beyoncé thing, right?
Ok, Cool.
Is it ok now?"
[Verse 4]
Remind me why we in this shit
Remind me why we in this shit
Cause we ain't on no pile of shit
Nigga I'mma make my music from my heart
And I live and I die by everything that I say
And everything that I do
And everything that make is what I believe to be true
And if the shit don't make sense and sound like nonsense
I don't give a fuck because that was my stream of conscious
And that's the way I felt at that time
And feelings was the only facts
And racism and materialism is killing blacks
And one more thing if I can ask
One more thing if I can add
[Verse 5]
Cause in this life, our life just moves to fast
And time is somethng tht you can never get back
What's your quality of life?
What's your quality of life?
And that's why I mean it when I say I hope you have a good time tonight
I hope you have a good time tonight
London, it's Louise Wilson's birthday tonight
[Bridge]
An inspiration, not lead instruments
I'm the lead instrument, but he's background
Happy birthday to Louise who taught 
Alexander McQueen
My friend Louis Gold, Christopher King, 
Stella McCartney
And Kanye West, even though she doesn't want me to put that on my resume
[Outro]
But it's still sometimes like there's no good ideas
And no real ideas and nothing sincere left
And everything has been so homogenized
And it's all big business and it's no creativity
But really we have the ability to have a human Utopia
If we just helped each other
If we just use our resources
And stop tryna compete against each other
And tryna beat each other
And eat each other
And maybe came together and tried to teach each other
And reach each other
And reach each other
Maybe try to come together and love each other
And love each other
And love one another
Maybe try to come together and love each other
And love each other
And love each other
And love another
And love each other
And love each other
And love each other
And love another
The way you love you love your mother man
The way you should love your father man
Y'all don't really understand
Cause this is our shit
And is this our motherfucking clique
Clique, clique clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my motherfucking clique
Clique, clique, clique
I said ain't nobody fresher than my motherfucking clique
Clique, clique, clique
I said ain't nobody fresher than my motherfucking clique


[Verse 1: Pusha T]
Re-Up Gang Pusha
(Looking for trouble, trouble, trouble)
But you found it, mutherfucker
All I see is 
black roses
, 
drug dealer poses
Shoveling that devil’s angel up they noses
Never let jail turn my Shyne into Moses
Couldn’t cleanse my soul with them Civil Rights hoses
Panoramic roof, under glass like a coaster
Backseat driver, racial slurs at the chauffeur
Killian loafers
, 
Mikimoto chokes her
Photo-op is priceless, frame our wanted posters
The Audacity, war brings casualty
Bitch have my son before I face that tragedy
I order hits, she orders mahi
R.I.P. Vivian Blake, shout out the Shower Posse
Gone
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
(You seek out problems)
(Looking for trouble)
But you found it, motherfucker
I miss the misogyny, bad bitches massagin' me
Sometimes we lowered our standards at the colleges
So please don’t judge me, uh, for the followin’:
Fat bitches swallowin', skinny bitches modelin’
Take off that Givenchy and let’s get raunchy
I have your face looking all Captain Crunchy
The devil stay testing, ’cause when you chase the pussy it’s a sin
But if it falls in your lap, it’s a blessin'
Soon as I got salad, I spent it all on dressin'
French, to be exact, that Balmain was impressive
Hedi Slimane
 leathers
[Verse 3: Cyhi The Prynce]
(Cyhi! Yeah!)
Boy, we lookin’ for trouble
Maybe if we wasn’t black, then we wouldn’t have struggled
Player, all I got is trap niggas and crooks in my huddle
They cook and I smuggle
, 
got twenty pounds of kush in the duffle
So I’m runnin’ through them circles, boy, I’m looking like Knuckles
Look at my knuckles, got the hook in ’cause niggas was looking
I’ve tooken some whoopings, so trust me, dog, I’m good for a scuffle
Don’t be mad I whooped your ass, ’cause I’ve tooken a couple
Feds askin' niggas questions, but I wouldn’t rebuttal
‘cause I’m Jake Gyllenhaal, I’m in the hood with the bubble
With a tall model broad like I took her from Russell
Didn’t play the cards I was dealt, I made the dealer re-shuffle
Royal Flush, so kiss my royal nuts
Ain’t nothin’ silver spooned, I came from the soil, bruh
But now I’m eatin’ off of Raffaello Gold
Exquisite ravioli with some happy yellow hoes
But don’t get it confused when I rap these mellow flows
‘Cause all my Titos got bricks like the yellow road
[Verse 4: Big Sean]
G.O.O.D., 
I do it, B.I.G. Sean Don, nigga
But you found it motherfucker
I’m, in, that no-smoke sec rolling motherfucking ounces
Marijuana mountains, drinks you’re not pronouncing
Three chains on
, 
I don’t need no bouncers
Nothing less than a G-stack’s in my trousers
New Double D's smashed in her blouses
Fuck a hotel, my nigga we rent houses (houses)
My nigga, we rent houses
So many wedding rings lost in them couches
I’m just a Westside lover
I leave females in my sheets and all my feelings in a rubber
This is showtime, showtime, boy, I hope you set the DVR
Stacking money face to face, this shit look like CPR
‘Ye invited me a seat to sit at the throne
So now I’m snappin’ like yo’ ass just finished a poem
Does he sound like 'Ye, Jay, or Drizzy Drake?
Meanwhile, I’m chillin’ with all these niggas, counting all this money you ain’t
Consider yourself lucky to see a legend before the prime
A killer before the crime, a B.I.G. before the dyin'
Greet me wit’ a middle finger when you see me
It’s cool, ’cause I can’t see yo’ ass from this side of the TV, mutherfucker!
[Verse 5: J. Cole]
Hey, 
Cole World
, 
make way for the
 
chosen one
What you now hear is puttin’ fear in all the older ones
Downplayed me to downgrade me like they don’t notice son
Your shoes too big too fill? I can barely squeeze my toes in ‘em
Fucking hoes while teachin' niggas to hold your sons
This the rap Moses, scratch that, Mary and Joseph’s son
High as fuck with a cold flow and a loaded gun
Never say I’m better than Hov', but I’m the closest one
Heard you lookin’ for trouble, what, I’m ‘sposed to run?
Yo’ bitch invited me inside her, ain’t I supposed to come?
Got niggas that’ll blow your tee off, put a hole in one
Now you outside of Heaven’s gate, frontin’ like you know someone
Talking hard, but y’all still ain’t push me
They say you are what you eat, and I still ain’t pussy
Fuck it, e’rybody can get it
When you’re this hot, e'rybody’s a critic
But when you’re this high e'rybody’s a midget
All this mean mugging from niggas that mean nothin'
Could it be my position is one that you dreamed of?
Went from quarter to broke to half past rich
With my badass bitch
And you don’t want no problems on some math class shit
So check the young genius out
Fuck the world, bust a nut, and let my semen sprout
I thought that real shit is what you been fiendin' ’bout
What you been praying fo’? What you been screamin' ’bout?
Ironic you been sleeping on the one that you been dreamin' ’bout


[Verse 1: Mos Def]
The power of observation
Marvels and frights and strange delights
Attributes, properties, disciplines and novelties
Ecstatic patterns in the calendar design
Wilderness tours, guided by and for the blind
Cool ruler standing still sweating through the shades
He knew those lights only grew bright to fade
Dead wrong pageantry, lottery and games
Sleight of hand provided by extravagant and fake
The carnival tilt bell the hustle for the age
They clutch what they covet, what must they give away?
Who was uninvited who was asked to come and stay?
Surprise, it's your life, it's your business anyway
So please pardon these and such curious minds
Peace, safe passage, precious time hither and gone
The day of days, Yawm al-Qiyāmah
This tiny stone illuminated by a star
The only star so large many more
To make our largest star show small
Furthermore, the end is not the end no stop but a pause
And what we can witness isn't all there is at all
Custom mock of a scotch and pork chops
The passion, 
expansion
, 
the order of the random
See the dreamers, see the sleepers
Why'd you wake them?
Sweet Jesus and life on Earth
Seek heaven first
Let's put in this work
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Her heels set the mood
Where did you acquire those Alaia's
When I met you I heard Jesus, bells, strings, and the choir
I got lines that's better than niggas' albums, plural
The king of the urban make your shit sound rural
She said I hit it so deep she need a epidural
Them other niggas have you looking like a squirrel
Now that nuts.
 
I only hang with white boys that like black sluts
Tell them 
Plain Pat
 yo that track sucks
We ain't dissing you
But you in the position to play something for us to listen to
I'm trying to worry about my scratch minus the crabs
I ain't stopping for you niggas like yellow cabs
I got scripts so why we need a movie?
And if I'm a douche then put me in your coochie
I swear they should have never gave these niggas loose leaf
And excuse me if I'm trapped by the boobies, booby trapped
[Verse 3: Swizz Beatz]
All white Bentley, I call that mama
My life crazy, like Obama's
You talk slick? Well I'm Osama
Bin Laden,
 I'm what's happening I get it cracking
All black Carbon on my wrist yeah
It's gonna take you a couple years to get this here
Thank AP, well they thank me
And I be mad too if you ain't me
Call me Mr. Dean or Mr. Bars
See me riding clean in a Rolls Royce
Niggas talking funny, that's old money
Niggas looking crazy but they talking funny
Nowadays rappers, they like bloggers
You see me, I'm a bank hogger
Coming through your hood in a Brinks truck
With 25s on it like what the fuck
100 feet and better, what the fuck use stick
Paparazzi on the water
 what the fuck use stick
My face got the "fuck you pricks"
My beats go hard like fuck you dicks
Pouring champagne damn thing
See me rocking suede, nigga, in the damn rain
Ain't a damn thing, money ain't a damn thing
Ask Yeezy and Mos we do the god damn thing
[Verse 4: Raekwon]
Ay yo 
open glass on my fingers
I sit back like I'm caged but still caking
My niggas is hating
It's like being in the livest Lambo in the hood
You a piece of steak I'd rather be that than some bacon
Every project is a throne only just bigger
Stones they throw that's why I wear a big hat and roll weed
Gone if you don't know where you came or when you came
All you know is weed and cocaine
Nonbelievers no game
I'm zooted down, rolling a spliff, maxing
Flaming like wheels got traction
I'm sun he's attractive
Guaranteed to service the real niggas
Out cruising in a Volvo, a duffle for dolo, buffy polo
A blow house is where I resided once
Live amongst fiends, counting currency, hitting blunts
Only to hear the door rumble, 
grab the 4
Hope it ain't the law
Or maybe some nigga trying to score


[Produced by Jeff Bhasker & Kanye West]
[
Justin Vernon -
 
Bon
 
Iver
: Sample From 
"Woods"
]
I’m up in the woods, I’m down on my mind
I’m building a still to slow down the time
I’m up in the woods, I’m down on my mind
[Hook 1 x2]
I’m lost in the world,
 Been down my whole life
I’m new in the city, but I’m down for the night
Down for the night
Said 
she’s down for the night
[Kanye West - Verse 1]
You're my devil, you're my angel
You're my heaven, you're my hell
You're my now, you're my forever
You're my freedom, you're my jail
You're my lies, you're my truth
You're my war, you're my truce
You're my questions, you're my proof
You're my stress and you're my masseuse
Ma ma se, ma ma sa, ma ma ku sa
Lost in this plastic life
Let's break out of this fake-ass party
Turn this in to a classic night
If we die in each others arms we still get laid in our afterlife
If we die in each others arms we still get laid, yeah
[Hook 2]
I’m up in the woods, been down my whole life
(Run from the lights, run from the night)
I’m building a still to slow down the time
(Run for your life, Down for the night...)
I’m lost in the world, been down my whole life
I’m new in the city, and I’m down for the night
Down for the night
Said she’s down for the night
(Run from the lights, run from the night)
[
Bridge
]
Who will survive in America
Who will survive in America
Who will survive in America
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West and Jeff Bhasker]
[Verse 1]
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
What I had to do, had to run from you
I'm in love with you, but the vibe is wrong
And that haunted me, all the way home
So you never know, never never know
Never know enough, 'til it's over love
'Til we lose control, SYSTEM OVERLOAD
Screaming, "No, no, no, n-nooo!"
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
See I wanna move, but can't escape from you
So I keep it low, keep a secret code
So everybody else don't have to know
[Hook]
So keep your love lock-down - your love lockdown
Keeping your love lock-down - your love lockdown
Now keep your LOVE lock-down - your LOVE lockdown
Now keep your LOVE lock-down - you lose
[Verse 2]
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
I can't keep my cool, so I keep it true
I got something to lose, so I gotta move
I can't keep my-self, and still keep you too
So I keep in mind, when I'm on my own
Somewhere far from home, in the danger zone
How many times did I tell you 'fore it finally got through?
You lose, you lose
I'm not loving you, the way I wanted to
See I had to go, see I had to move
No more wasting time, you can't wait for life
We're just racing time, where's the finish line?
[Hook]
[
Verse 3]
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
I bet no one knew, I got no one new
Know I said I'm through, but got love for you
But I'm not loving you, the way I wanted to
Gotta keep it going, keep the loving going
Keep it on the roll, only God knows
If I be with you, baby I'm confused
You choose, you choose
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
Where I wanna go, I don't need you
I've been down this road, too many times before
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
[Hook]
You lose
You lose
You lose
You lose


[Verse 1]
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
What I had to do, had to run from you
I'm in love with you, but the vibe is wrong
And that haunted me, all the way home
So you never know, never never know
Never know enough, 'til it's over love
'Til we lose control, system overload
Screaming, "No, no, no, n-nooo!"
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
See I wanna move, but can't escape from you
So I keep it low, keep a secret code
So everybody else don't have to know
[Hook]
So keep your love lockdown - your love lockdown
Keeping your love lockdown - your love lockdown
You keep your love lockdown - your love lockdown
You keep your love lockdown - you lose
[Verse 2]
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
I can't keep my cool, so I keep it true
I got something to lose, so I gotta move
I can't keep my-self, and still keep you too
So I keep in mind, when I'm on my own
Somewhere far from home, in the danger zone
How many times did I tell you 'fore it finally got through?
You lose, you lose
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
See I had to go, see I had to move
No more wasting time, we can't wait for life
We're just racing time, where's the finish line?
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
I bet no one knew, I got no one new
Know I said I'm through, but got love for you
But I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
Gotta keep it going, keep the loving going
Keep it on the roll, only God knows
If I be with you, baby I'm confused
You choose, you choose
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
Where I’m bout to go, I don't need you
I've been down this road, too many times before
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
[Hook]
So keep your love locked down, so keep your love lockdown
So keep your love locked down, so keep your love lockdown
Is anybody in the house right now in love right now?
In love right now, well keep your love lockdown
If anybody in the house right now is in love right now
Try your best to keep your love lockdown
Keep your love lockdown
Keep it on
Is it better to have loved and lost, than to never have loved at all?
This brings us to the end of my VH1 Storyteller
Thank you for
Being my shrink today and the stage as my couch
Thank you for allowing me to get some things off my chest and out of my mind
The ghosts out of my head so they will not haunt me at night
And just for this moment as I hear clap and hear you scream, just for this moment
I feel alright
My pain shall be your pleasure, my torment and tragedy
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
See I had to go, see I had to move
No more wasting time, you can't wait for life
We're just racing time, where's the finish line?
Where’s the finish line?
Are we at the finish line?
Running for the finish line
Running for the finish line
Are we at the finish line?
Are we at the finish line?
Are we at the finish line?
Are we at the finish line?
You run for the finish line
You run for the finish line
I’m not ready to fi-finish life
But I’m on the finish line
So I run from the finish line
I run from the finish line
‘Cause I’m not ready to finish life
I gotta run from the finish life
So keep your love lockdown, so keep your love
You keep your love
We’re low…
Not loving you, way I wanted to
What I had to do, had to run from you
I'm in love with you, but the vibe is wrong
And that haunted me, all the way home
So you never know, never never know
Never know enough, 'til it's over love
'Til we lose control, system overload
Screaming, "No, no, no, no, no, noo
I'm not loving you, way I wanted to
What I had to do, had to run from you
So I keep it low, keep a secret cold
So everybody else don’t have to know
So keep your love lockdown
You keep your love lockdown [3x]
So keep your love lockdown [3x]
You keep your love lockdown and you lose
Is anybody in the house right now that’s in love right now?
You gotta keep your love locked down, you gotta keep your love
Promise me, promise me, promise me, promise me
Please, please, promise me
Please, promise me, please
That you will keep your love lockdown
Just try to keep your love lockdown
You don’t want to make the music
I’m forced to make right now
I know it sounds good and all
But I would rather have my love lockdown
That number one hit don’t mean shit
If it’s nobody to celebrate with
To celebrate with, to levitate with
You gotta keep your love lockdown, your love lockdown
Your love lockdown, your love lockdown
Now keep your love lockdown, your love lockdown
You lose


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
Kanyeezy you did it again, you a genius nigga!
[Hook]
Lucifer, son of the morning! I'm gonna chase you out of Earth
(I'm from the murder capital, where we murder for capital)
Lucifer, son of the morning! I'm gonna chase you out of Earth
(So you need to change your attitude 'fore they asking what happened to you)
[Verse 1]
Lord forgive him, he got them dark forces in him
But he also got a righteous cause for sinning
Them-a-murder me, so I gotta murder them first
Emergency, doctors performing procedures
Jesus, I ain't trying to be facetious, but
"Vengeance is mine" sayeth the Lord, you said it better than all
Leave niggas on death's door, breathing on
Respirators for killing my best boy, haters
On 
permanent hiatus
 as I skate
In the Maybach Benz
, 
flyer than Sanaa Lathan
Pumping "Brown Sugar" by D'Angelo
In Los Angeles, like an evangelist
I can introduce you to your maker
Bring you closer to nature,
 
ashes after they cremate you bastards
Hope you been reading your psalms and chapters
Paying your tithe
, being good Catholics, I'm coming
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Yes, this is 
holy war
, 
I wet y'all all with the holy water
Spray from the Heckler-Koch automatic
All the static, shall cease to exist
Like a sabbatical, I throw couple at you, take six!
Spread love, to all of my dead thugs
I pour out a little Louis
, to a head above
Yessir, and when I perish, 
the meek shall inherit the Earth
'til that time, 
it's on and popping, church
Like Don Bishop
, the fifth or palm cock either
Lift up your soul or give you the holy ghost
Please I leave you in somebody's cathedral for stunting like Evel Knievel
I let you see where that bright light lead you
The more you talk, the more you irking us
The more you gon' need memorial services
The Black Album, 
second verse, is like
Devil's pie
, save some dessert for us
[Interlude]
Man, I gotta get my soul right
I gotta get these devils out my life
These cowards gonna make a nigga ride
They won't be happy 'til somebody die
Oh man, I gotta get my soul right
'Fore I'm locked up for my whole life
Every time it seems it's alright
Somebody want they soul to rise
I chase you off of this Earth
(Let me get serious for y'all, one second)
[Verse 3]
I got dreams of holding a nine milla to Bob's killer
Asking him "why?" as my eyes fill up
These days I can't wake up with a dry pillow
Gone but not forgotten, homes I still feel ya
So, curse the day that birthed the bastard
Who caused your church mass, reverse the crash
Reverse the blast then reverse the car
Reverse the day and there you are, Bobalob
Lord forgive him, we all have sinned
But Bob's a good dude, please let him in
And if you feel in my heart that I long for revenge
Please blame it on the son of the morning, thanks again


[Intro] [Kanye West talking]
Yo it's your boy, super pro-huhum, I mean super RAPPER Kanye West
I want to shout out all my Heavy Hitters. Yo, G & Hop what up?
[Verse 1]
Was it because of the Roc
That she wanna rock with West?
Because after the Blueprint I got lots of checks
She don't play X-Box but got a box of X
That make her tongue move faster than Das EFX
Uh, white Benz
, 
dyke twins
I ain't gon' lie they only fives but together they tens
And would I do them again?
Hummm, it's like old folks pissin' cause it all Depends
And there's no coke sniffin', just juice and gin
Grey Goose will get you loose then hit the nigga producin'
The track that got you movin'
I never hit a lady but my game might abuse them
Buyin' boots just to tell 'em that I Jimmy choose 'em
And take 'em back to confuse 'em
See she don't know if she's comin' or goin'
Cause mommy after I'm cummin' I'm goin'
Back to the show
Just frontin' and flowin'
Jewelry stuntin' and glowin'
It's like somethin' outta nowhere
Yeah, and I've been known to have a ho or two
Cause my diamond's yellow like a smoker tooth
I tell 'em, "Step into the vocal booth"
Roll a joint, smoke a few
After that I'm pokin' you
After that it's over boo
Baby grab your coat and peeeeuuuun
She said, "I love you K."
"I know you do. If I was you I'd love me too."
Yoooooooou
Not used to what I got to offer
Please get up off me baby, you can't boss me
I wish I would let her dictate
All she can tell me is how the dick taste
How she gonna tell K about L.A.?
When I got three hoes that stay in Marina Del Ray
Well paid, they don't park it, just valet
Waist small like the Motorola Cingular cell-y
Voice high like Mich'elle
I step back like, "Hi Save draft
You ever ran for Miss L.A.?"
Cause you holdin' down the city officia-lly
Next time you fuckin' your man, just yell, "K
"


[Drake - Verse 1]
Low-key Peter Parker flow
Tell her bring some Ace of Spades no sparklers though
Private flights no hassle I just park and go
I’m the highlight like when markers glow
Oooooh, look what you created
Only got yourself to blame
I remember when you hated ooooh
Now you tell me take my time
How bout I just take your city make that muthaf-cker mine uh ha
I’m a 
underground king
 ho
I sit tall, I swang low
The game ain't always fair and thats the thing though
You can play your heart out everyone don’t get a ring though
You are in the presence of a champion
Bout to get a condo that I can fit your mansion in
You always be calling her, she ain’t never answering
You ain’t figured out I am the reason that she canceling
I be at the parties where you stuck outside and can’t come in
Call me Ron Bergundy ya’ll the other anchormen
Whats on the news trick, gossiping bout music
Cause rumours I’m the new shit
And guess what it’s true bitch
[Hook]
We made it
We made it
We made it
They hate it
They hate it
They hate it
They hate it
[Drake]
I feel like we made it
But we ain't made enough
Its so amazing
You woulda thought we made it up
[Big Sean]
Man I was made to be greater
Made for the grind
Made for the lights
Made for the shine
[Big Sean - Verse 2]
Ay look
I need less friends more bread
Less talk more head
Used to ride escorts now I get escorted
 
(do it)
I’m just waiting on my cue dog no pledge
Said she like all girls I turn that bitch co-ed
Threw on my track team handed my baton to her
Passed her blew her off, I chronic Veronica
Who got up on my nerves so I had to platonic her
No that ain't my girl but every leader needs a Monica
I’m the head of my estate ain't that ironic huh
I want the baddest chick to treat my stick like a thermometer
Ohh, I’m who they going ape shit over
I’m who your girlfriend acting like she ain't shit over
See broads over niggas but business over broads
See business 
equals money and money’s over all
I’m tryna move my momma from the ghettos to the meadows
Well she can’t stay in that fucking hood forever, forever
Was made for that Mick Jagger shit
 baggage check and a chick
Fast girls, faster whip, 
big chains master shit
Bitch I’m living everyday month yearly
Yell until you muthfuckers hear me
We made it
[Hook]


[Produced By Mike Dean &
 Sak Pase]
[Hook: Frank Ocean]
Sweet king Martin, sweet queen Coretta
Sweet brother Malcolm, sweet queen Betty
Sweet Mother Mary, sweet father Joseph
Sweet Jesus, we made it in America
Sweet baby Jesus, oh sweet baby Jesus
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I told my mama I was on the come up
She said, "You going to school, I’ll give you a summer"
Then she met No I.D. and gave me his number
Ten years later she driving a Hummer
Niggas hustle every day for a beat from Ye
What I do? Turn around gave them beats to Jay
And I’m rapping on the beat they was supposed to buy
I guess I’m getting high off my own supply
Downtown mixing fabrics tryna find the magic
Started a little blog just to get some traffic
Old folks’ll tell you not to play in traffic
A million hits and the web crashes, damn!
South Park had them all laughing
Now all my niggas designing and we all swaggin’
Ignore the critics just to say we did it
This ain’t no fashion show mothafucka, we live it
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
I pledge allegiance to my Grandma
For that banana pudding, our piece of Americana
Our apple pie was supplied through Arm and Hammer
Straight out the kitchen, shh, don’t wake Nana
Built a republic that still stands
I’m tryna lead a nation, to leave to my little man's
Or my daughter, so I’m boiling this water
The scales was lopsided, I’m just restoring order
Hold up, here comes grandma, what’s up Yaya?
What’s that smell? Oh I’m just boiling some agua
No papa, bad Santa
The streets raised me, pardon my bad manners
I got my liberty chopping grams up
Street justice, I pray God understand us
I pledge allegiance to all the scramblers
This is the Star Spangled Banner
[Hook]


[Intro]
Yo, this sound like some movie shit right
Get your popcorn, get your condiments
You dont wanna miss nothing, ok listen
[Verse 1]
They call me Edward Scissorhands cause I'm trying to cut
She claim she got cramps, I'm gone get you to suck
And you not gonna use your teeth you hear
You gon find out What Lies Beneath right here
The Preachers Wife
Don't give head, get a divorce man
The kids been calling you the headless horseman
Like Sleepy Hollow see she swallow
Suck like ol girl got booed at Apollo
13
 
Ghosts
 
use my Hollow Man
 
for Friday 13th
You be Ghost,
 Backdraft from the toast
Niggas who drop names is, oh so shameless
Get a chain that's stainless, they Almost Famous
My bling got em calling me, Lord Of The Rings
The Shining
 
make it hard for her to Do The Right Thing
But I Dont Say a Word, I'll never tell
Until you get a Kanye beat, you'll never sell
[Refrain]
I'm living a movie, not living by rules
It's just a movie, don't lose your cool
One, two, Ye coming for you
Three, four, better lock your door
Five, six
Seven, eight
Nine, ten, never sleep again
[Verse 2]
Shit's deeper, than The Sleepers
Jeeper Creep-up on your block and cops Clock-us
Try to Baller Block-us, use Absolute Power
You gave him 9 1/2 Weeks
Why you trying to Rush Hours, huh
And in The Cell don't drop soap in the showers, huh
They try to give me Life, I'm out in an hour, huh
Back on the block with more Juice than Pac
Makin Mo' Money cause of The, The, The, The Roc
[Refrain]
[Outro]
I said some shit like, umm
You in my things like Suicide Kings
There's only 
Three Kings
Me, Myself and Irene
You know what I'm saying


Wait a second, would you rather me not talk at all? ’Cause I don’t want to like, 
I don’t want to rattle no cages or nothing, I don’t want to like, I don’t want to get in trouble.
 I want to be scared. I’m trying my best to be scared. I’m trying my hardest to be scared. No, no, no, I don’t want to talk. I don’t want to talk at all. 
As a matter of fact I’m just going to tip-toe on this
I’m scared of anonymous comments online. I’m scared of them. These words affect me so much. They affect me so much. No, I’m sorry. I’m scared, I’m scared. I’m scared of these corporations, like, not giving me another deal that they didn’t give me already. I’m scared. I’m scared.  I’m so shook. I’m so, so scared. So scared. Soooo
You ain’t never seen, you ain’t ever seen, that my great, great, great, granddaddy somehow ended up on that boat.
 Somehow he ended up on that boat. But I know that we were royalty. I know we built the pyramids. I know anything is possible. I know anything is possible. And everybody has a moment in time and I picked y’all when I was walking in Madison Square Garden, I just wanted to make sure, thank y’all for giving me this moment in time. ’Cause everybody has a moment. And in your moment you gotta own it. There’s so many people have a moment and they don’t own it
You know, it’s so funny when people compliment me and they say the word genius, and somehow 
that
 like, separates me from rappers in some way, there’s the connotation of that. But what I need y’all to realize is Jay Z is a genius. 
And I need y’all to understand that Drake is a genius
. 
I need y’all to understand that rap is an amazing way to express genius
’Cause just as an architect would build buildings, we put our words together to express the shit that we going through. We are the modern day poets, obviously. But why are so many writers so condescending to the rappers? Why do they try to classify us as musicians as being ignorant in some way? Why do they try to classify us, as far as the classes go? You know how it goes, right? I think it’s like a battle between art and architecture as the top. And if you’re an artist or an architect, you look down upon a fashion designer. And if you’re a fashion designer, you look down upon a musician. And if you a musician, you sign a deal with a corporation so you can buy a bigger house. And every time you go in the studio you watch your fucking mouth
You watch, you watch your fucking mouth. You don’t, you don’t want to lose this house. But when they write these history books, they’re not going to talk about what house we had. When they write the history books they aren’t going to talk about the money we made. They’re going to talk about the impact we had. They’re going to talk about the impact we had
And being that I saw The Hunger Games today, I wanted to bring up something, because it was very inspiring. It felt like almost a mimic of my exact life and shit. I know it. I was like, “Baby we gotta be on that movie board when they writing this shit.” And I saw Lenny Kravitz. There wouldn’t be no song called 
“Niggas in Paris”
 if it wasn’t for Lenny Kravitz. ’Cause that was the first nigga in Paris. Fucking with the models and shit, rocking Rick Owens head-to-toe and shit. 
Black. Rock. Star
But what’s interesting to me is like I was fond of hanging out with different people, in Paris, right. ’Cause Lenny Kravitz has like, the best taste. And he has like the dopest crib in Paris, everybody knows about it. And I don’t know if you know this, but he designs furniture, he designs lighting fixtures, and he had been working on a clothing line for a long, long, long, long, long, long, long time. Long time. Long, long, long, long time
And the designers would love it when Lenny Kravitz would show up at their fashion show. Yeah we gonna take some pictures of Lenny Kravitz and we gonna say he’s at the such and such show, and that’s gonna promote our brand. Hey Lenny, promote it the best you can. Hey Lenny, promote it the best you can. Hey Lenny, promote it the best you can. Best you can. Hey Kanye, promote it the best you can. Hey Kanye, promote us the best you can. From Paris to New York all the way to Japan. Hey Kanye, I mean Lenny, I mean any of you niggas, promote it the best you can. Any of you niggas promote if the best you can
So I said, “Wait a second, though.” I said, “I’ve got a dream of doing my clothing and I, I want to learn about furniture,” and you know what they told me when I was in Paris? You know when the W Magazine writer came out and wrote that classist-ass interview about me? You know what they said? You know what the billionaires told me? I went to about three or four different people and you know what they told me when I told them about my dreams? They said,  “Lenny Kravitz wanted the same, same thing.” They said, “Lenny Kravitz wanted the same, same thing.” Don’t let me sing because I want y’all to understand that I need to talk to you. They told me, “Hey that’s cute, that’s the same thing Lenny wanted to do.” Like it’s a motherfucking joke. It wouldn’t be no Kanye west if it wasn’t for Lenny Kravitz. You know what I’m saying?
But the only difference between me and Lenny Kravitz is I turned up on these niggas. I don’t give a fuck about looking cool or being cool. And this is no disrespect to Lenny. But they got this shit called cool, everybody want to look cool, everybody want to be cool, everybody don’t want to break their motherfucking cool, don’t nobody want to look like a fool
My boy [?], who used to work for Donda and now designs stages for Jay Z and Justin. The other day he said a word that I hadn’t heard people say before. And he said he was working at some corporation, and the head of the corporation is always like, kind of down on him and shit, and the word was to marginalize. To marginalize. And then he also said he tried to make him look like an idiot in front of people, right? So has anyone here tonight ever read a piece of press or saw something or heard something on the radio where they tried to make me look like an idiot? Wait a second, I don’t know, have you ever heard anything in the press where they’re trying to make me look stupid? You know what I’m saying, like I’m actually stupid. (Laughs) You know what I’m saying, like I’m not smart, like stupid. Like, like what the fuck is wrong with him? You know what I’m saying? Have y’all ever read or heard someone say, “I don’t like Kanye West”?
I’ll tell you something. Have you ever heard anyone talk shit about Lenny Kravitz though? He’s a nice guy. He’s a nice guy. He’s so well-mannered. I envy manners. I envy it. I envy people who are extremely likeable. I’m like, “Damn, I wish I could be likeable like them.” I wish people would like me like that
So what they basically did was, at Fashion Week… Let me explain something to you… I don’t give a fuck about fashion. I care about talent. I care about creativity. And it just so happens that with the advent of the Louis Vuitton bag, fashion rise to the top, and stole all of the creativity to only work for its small box, and sell it back to you at a higher price. That’s what the fuck fashion is to me. I care about dreamers. I care about heart. I care about soul. Not those who are marginalized
So if you think about someone like McQueen. Instead of being forced to make some fucking T-shirts with a skull on it, why wasn’t 
he allowed to make movies
? He was just as good as Tarsem, he’s just a good a visualist as anyone else. But they would marginalize him as only a fashion designer. Which, let’s rewind, is above a music producer, and it’s above a rapper
’Cause you gotta stay in your tier, in your section. You gotta stay right there, you can’t move. But if you pay for a ticket, you wanted to come to see this show, and you standing right there, right? And when you’re trying to go you say I want to go up there, a security guard stops you, and then holds you, and if you start screaming the paparazzi catch you, catch you with your face looking all crazy, and then you scream out loud, and you got to really scream, you gotta say, “I am a god!” Just for them to let you a little bit up
But you know who fucked it up for everyone? Marc Jacobs. Because he gave two niggas a shot, me and Pharrell. He fucked the whole game up, and Pharell’s such a nice guy. ’Cause soon as I was able to make that Louis Vuitton sneaker, and the world reacted—I didn’t price it, but the world reacted to it—I got to see what it meant to create inside of that type of production facility. And wait a second, the same guy that was creative enough to make all of this [gestures back to his stage setup], that’s worn Jordans his whole life, could create a sneaker with Louis Vuitton and people reacted to that. And I said, I made another color. I did a pink model, and I did a red model, and I named them after my friends. I made one in Jasper after Ivan Jasper and one Mr. Hudson after Mr. Hudson, and one, the Louis Vuitton Don, for my nigga Don C. And that last day in the factory, I was going through the colors and it came to me, when they made me do a couple pictures and shit, and I called back after they sold out. And they said, “I’m sorry, Mr. West, but you’re not going to be able to create anything else in here. You’re not going to be able to create anything else again.” They said, “I’m sorry,” and I said, “But wait a second. I sold out.” They said, “I’m sorry Mr. West, you can never create anything else again.”
And right there, I was scared. Right there I was scared. ’Cause I thought that if I just went to their fashion show again and I just sat down like a good nigga they would let Lenny Kravitz get his shot! I thought maybe, maybe they would let Pharell get his shot. But no, no, no. Fuck you, nigga. Fuck you, nigga. Fuck you, nigga. Is that abrasive enough for you? ’Cause that’s what it is. Fuck you, nigga. Is that abrasive enough for you?
And what about Mark Parker, and what about Hedi Slimane? 
I thought Hedi Slimane was my friend, and that’s why I’m so hurt
. How many names did people call me for wearing tight jeans when I’m the rapper that wore tight jeans and shit, that brought tight jeans to the ghetto and shit? I thought I was Hedi Slimane designing motherfuckin’ tight jeans that you want. I’m the nigga that, you know I’m rocking that shit. Then he had his first fashion show, and I was so happy for him. I was so, so, so happy for him. And he told me, you can come to my show, but you just can’t go to Riccardo’s show and you can’t go to Phoebe’s show
But he wouldn’t say that to Anna Wintour. He wouldn’t say that to [?]. And now his whole shit based off of rock and roll, and you trying to tell the number one rock star on the planet where the fuck he can go? So he can sell y’all, some motherfucking $10,000 pair of jeans? Fuck fashion. Fuck fashion. I mean, what’s the worst thing they gonna do, not help me again? What’s the worst they gonna do tell me I can’t go to these shows again? What’s the worst they gonna do, tell me that because I’m a musician, I don’t have any ideas for clothing again? What’s the worst they gonna do, marginalize me again? And never let Pharrell get his shot, and never let Lenny get his shot?
But I’mma tell y’all right now, I will take that spot. 
I am 2Pac of this clothing shit
.  And I’mma take that spot, and we gonna combine all the creators, the best creators on the planet, and we gonna lower the motherfucking prices, so everybody can get it. And we ain’t gonna steal from people’s ideas like H&M. And we ain’t gonna steal people’s ideas like Zara. We gon’ make our own shit. We gon’ combine the best creators on the planet, and we gon’ take them from Harvard, and we gon’ take them from St. Mark's, and we gon’ take ’em from the street
And I’m sorry I went so long tonight. I know you just want to hear another motherfuckin’ hit song tonight. I’m so sorry I went so long tonight. I know you just want to hear another motherfuckin’ hit song tonight. Hit song tonight, hit song tonight. Another hit song, another hit song. Yes they do. I ask people about it, I tell them that I’m this creator, and they say I need another hit song. They say I need another hit song, hit song tonight, hit song…
Hold up, hold up. I’m sorry, if anyone out there thinks they can do anything, put your hands up right motherfuckin’ now! Almost forgot that part


[Hook]
I am the magic man
Got the world in his hands, world in his hands
He said I am the magic man, world in his hands, world in his hands
Is anybody out there?
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
The magic man
The show goes on in 6 minutes and this is his lovely assistant
She's so beautiful don't you agree?
He made her to the star she always wanted to be
Buhblaaoowww, are those the stars you wanted to see?
The magic man could make the roof disappear in every car in his fleet
Was on dubs, he could take a bird flip it to 3
Release the doves, turn any bar into the fight club
Gotta fight every night to prove my love
You messing with this joker but you need a king
Cause he'll club anybody trying to jack his queen
I'mma call a spade a spade from the start
He gave you diamonds, should've gave you his heart, you see?
Jealousy strikes again, but she, said I'm just trying to wave at the man
Then he, turned her eyes black and blue with the wave of his hand
The Magic Man
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Malik Yousef]
The magic man
Abracadabra, from a dime piece to pieces of a dime bag lady
Each package, new baggage
Implemented a tragic plan
A volunteer from the audience, for the magic man
I have doubt my hat with natural flowers
She wanted work but wouldn't put any actual hours
Her dude had the keys to super natural powers
So she still with this new guy who can supply that white tiger like 
Siegfried & Roy
Indeed the boy, had that 
sweet street magic like David Blaine
 and she made it plain
If I had any advice that could save her, I could just save it man, and I can't understand that baby
She said you ain't no Houdini, ahhhh I know I ain't
I am an artist that can help you escape
Do y'all feel that, or is it cold just in here
For his next trick, Ta-da, he made her soul disappear
The magic man
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Common]
The magic man
Voila!
, she knew that I was into the stars
I didn't have to tip her, she was into my bars
A Tender, as slender as the pictures you remember, when you were younger
You wonder how she get from under, the sheets
She do a trick and keep it discreet
She wore a mink, fuck a rabbit just to keep the mystique
High like the magic frank had in the streets
In the sweetest way her status and her habits are meet
Its kinda tragic to see, this young woman cut in half
Thought she was the one but she couldn't do the math
In a flash, so fast i watch her ass disappear
He had game, pulled a quarter from the back of her ear, and macked in her ear
And played with her dreams, in a world where everything ain't the way that it seems
Under her spell, 
she let any dave cop a feel,
 I tried to tell the girl the magic man is not for real
The magic man
[Hook]


[Sample]
"Check out my melody"- Eric B. & Rakim
Intro [Jay-Z]
In the R-O-C
The official remix
Part two
Now you know who she is
Get familiar
Young princess of the Roc
Teairra Mari
I told y'all
We gets busy
Ye!
[Kanye West]
It's Kanyeezy with Teairra-airra-airra-airra
Gucci sweater
Louis leather
You was never
Where groupies ever
Or goofies ever
So it's only right you pull up in the two seater or better
Uh
Teairra Remix
I keep sip sippin' on somethin like Three 6
And keep keep the conflicts out the Jesus
Pieces
This is no wrong way to rock when you rollin' with the Roc uh
Let's get it poppin' or we go shoppin'
We back on the top 10
We can afford things again
See they too much effort, we too much better
It take 'em two months to do what?!
We do whatever
Hypno, Cris though, I mean whatever
Saracco Moscato it do taste better
I know what them girls like
I know it ain't easy
I know it ain't every day you will run into Yeezy
[Hook: Teairra Mari]
Is there any boys around
That know how to make a girl feel
That wanna make a girl feel
Make her feel good
All I wanna know
Is there any boys around
That know how to make a girl feel
That wanna make a girl feel
Make her feel good
I just wanna know
[Verse Two]
Do I have to tell a nigga how to touch me?
Do I have to tell a nigga how to hold me?
Do I have to tell a nigga when to call me?
Do I have to tell a nigga I'm lonely?
Do I have to feel wrong when it ain't strong?
Keep my mouth closed? (Huh huh huh)
Can't a girl from the hood find a homey
That ain't just tryin' to hang around me?
Do I have to show a nigga I'm a woman?
Do I have to apologize for my emotions?
Do I have to tell a nigga what to say to me
Every time he wanna get next to me?
Do I have to settle for a cap back K-Swiss stroke his ego?
(Mmh girl no)
Can't a chick from the hood find a homey
That wanna do more than spend money on me?
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Why is it so hard
For a girl like me to find a boy
That really knows how to make a girl feel (girl feel, feel)
Why is it so hard
For a girl like me to find a boy
That really knows how to make a girl feel (girl feel, feel)
I just gotta know
[Hook]


[Hook - Kid Cudi (w/ Lady Gaga)]
I make her say 
(Oh, oh-oh-oh, oh, oh-oh-oh)
When I (Pa-pa-pa-poker face, pa-pa-poker face)
I make her say (Oh, oh-oh-oh)
(AH-AH-AH-OH-OH)
Whaddup (Pa-pa-pa-
, pa-pa-poker face)
[Verse 1 - Kid Cudi]
Me first... hehe
Uh, uh-uh, 
she wanna have whatever she like
She can if she bring her friend
And 
we can have one hell of a night, through the day
Ay, I mean starin' like a 
creeper
 
cause you gotta peep her
I mean you prolly might be sayin' you ain't jockin' either
But man, ol' girl got a fat ol' ass
Yeah, the type to make you tell a bitch just dance
And fuck them other niggas cause you down for her bitches
Fuck them other 
niggas cause she down for the stickin'
And fuck them other niggas, hope she down for some lickin'
And fuck them other bitches cause she down for the trickin'
Love, 
I'm hopin' she a rider
When it's said and done
, and 
do she spit it up or swallow now
I ain't gotta trip about them niggas who like her
Cause me and mami know who can really make her go
[Hook w/ ad-libs & 
scratches from A-Trak
]
[Verse 2 - 
]
She said she want whatever she like
She said she gon' bring her friend
And we goin' have a hell of a night, through the day, I made her say
Hold up, (yeah?) born in '88 (Word?!)
How old is that? (Man!) Old enough
I got seniority with the sororities
So, that explain why I love college
Getting brain in the library cause I love knowledge
When you use your medulla oblongata
And give me scoliosis until I comatoses
And do it while I'm sleep, yeah a little osmosis
And that's my commandment you ain't gotta ask Moses
More champagne, more toasts-es
More damn planes, more coasts-es
And fuck a bus, the Benz is parked like Rosa
Ohsa
[Hook w/ ad-libs & scratches from A-Trak]
[Verse 3 - Common]
She said she want whatever she like
But you gotta bring your friend
And we can have one hell of a night, through the day
She blamed it on the ah-ah-ah-ah-ah-alcohol
She had her hair did, it was bound to fall
Down, down for a damn, Cudi already said it
Her poker Facebook, I'd already read it
But man, her head was gooder than the music
Electro body known to blow fuses
A stripper from the South, looking for a pay day
Said, "bitch, you should do it for the love like Ray J"
But they say, 
you be on that conscious tip
Get your hair right and get up on this conscious dick
I embody everything from the godly to the party
It's the way I was raised on the Southside safari, so


[Hook]
I never liked you niggas
Who knew one day I'd be just like you niggas
Uh, alright you niggas, uh, alright you niggas
When I become my mama's boyfriends?
[Verse 1]
He walked in our lives I was only five
Superman pajamas I was super duper fly
Sittin there like why?
 
He at least Hooper-Size
You know I scrutinize, like, "Who this newer guy?"
I'm my mama boyfriend, I'm her little husband
I was the man of the house when it wasn't
Tryna get to know me, homie? Just kill the charm
You ain't interested in me, you just tryning to fuck my mom
We all the voices of our parents' bad choices
The aftermath of divorces, the kids of bitter split-ups
And babysitters and grandparents don't know what do to with us
And the last thing I want to see is mama's new nigga
You old Old Spice wearing,
 
short chain wearing
Dress shoes and jogging pants wearing,
 
church sock wearing
When you first stop caring about your appearance?
When you get here anyway?
 
I already got parents
Don't try to put me in line, I already got crayons
My mama said I could do it, I already got clearance
Keep your hands off my mama
 
how Anita got Clarence
Y'all I know she look good
 
but you need to stop staring
I drew a picture of her that'd make her proud
But the door was locked and the TV up so loud
I screamed out, "I ain't going to sleep no time soon!
And when I do, I'm sleeping in my mama's room!"
[Bridge]
I don't like you nigga
If I was old enough I'd fight you nigga
I want to run over you with my bike, you nigga
Don't go to sleep at night, you nigga
When I become my mama's boyfriends?
[Verse 2]
Twenty years later where has the time gone
Now you see I'm dating, having problems of my own
Now that I'm grown the tables turned around
I never thought I'd ever raise another nigga's child
He don't like his mama's boyfriend just like me
Don't wanna do the wrong thing,
 
that's very un-Spike Lee
But he be like D Bo round his mama, there
Cause when she here, he be quiet when she leave, he be talking again
He be wilding out, be calm
I don't drink the drama
 
or sip the Dom-Tyler-Perry-on
"You gonna marry my mom?"
 
Look, I don't read palms
And I don't read Psalms
 
but I did take little man to church
Took little man to school
Look, little man, kids don't make the rules
Even though I ain't raised you, you your mama's angel
Don't get it twisted, baby boy, I'll Ving Rhames you
[Hook]


[Intro - Kanye]
You a bad girl, and your friend's bad too
You got the swag sauce, you dripping Swagu
[Verse 1 - Beyonce]
I may be young but I'm ready
To give you all my love
I told my girls you can get it
Don't slow it down, just let it go
[Hook - Beyonce]
So in love., I'll give it all away
Just don't tell nobody tomorrow
So tonight I'll do it every way
Music knocking till the morning light
Cause we like to party, ay
[Verse 2]
Your touch is driving me crazy
I can't explain the way I feel
Top down with the radio on, and the night belongs to us
Just hold me close don't let me go
[Hook - Beyonce]
[Verse 3 - Andre 3000]
Set the scene, 3000 degrees
Ain't worried 'bout them fuck-niggas over there
But they worried 'bout me
I got a homeboy named Butter, and another homeboy
That nigga named Cheese
Fuck with me baby I'll make it milk till it drip down your knees
Spit this shit fo-rillo, brain braille
Kiddo say he looks up to me, this just makes me feel old
Never thought that we could become someone else's hero
Man, we were just in the food court, eating ga-giros
Yesterday, that's the way, 
every single morning I try to pray
Grandmama name ain't never forgot, nothin' else really mean nothing to me
I ain't stuntin' the beat, talking to me?
Heard why you fuckin' with me, move on ain't nothing to see
Shh, always something the saw, I’m the raw, off the rip
Cause of him, all of them, will remem-ber the min-ute
They fell in love with rap
Black, like having your cousin back
Blue like when that rent is due
Cream like when I'm lovin' you
[Hook - Beyonce]
[Outro - Kanye West]
You a bad girl, and your friend's bad too
You got the swag sauce, you dripping swag goo


[Hook: T-Pain]
Realest shit I ever wrote, chilling in my Maybach
Whatever I send out, homey I'mma make back
 (back)
Can you believe it? You gotta see it
Cause I don't plan on going broke, put that on my Maybach
Cause I'm in it to win now, niggas can't take that
Listen to my Maybach music, to my Maybach music
[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
Martin Louie the King Jr, starting all that stunting is gonna ruin you
If B.I. was alive
, 
he'd prob'ly have the 2-tone
With the Grey Poupon
, 
anything 'Ye poop on
Will explode
, 
cause I am the shit and this is my commode
Uh-oh, there they go, talkin' bout how your boy's clothes extra-tight
I just remembered that my limelight extra-bright
I hit the strip club and girls get extra-hype
You hit the strip club and girls turn extra-dyke
We know who not getting no sex tonight
And a lap dance'll prob'ly be a blessing, right?
So all the shit you talking, dead, coffin
Light the weed, coughin',
 
new crib, loft in
Where it's at? Austin, Where is that? Texas
What's in front? Benzes, What else? Lexus
Well who's Maybach is this? Mr. West's
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Rick Ross]
Boss!
Kush burn like petroleum,
 
crib needs custodians
Shades in all shades,
 
these made of rhodium
Used to be the Oldsmo hoes call it oh lo
Now I got so many horses bitches call me Polo
57, 62: tell me how you wanna move
Yea you know I got them both, beat your ass black and blue
I was barely getting pretty women
Now I scoop Emmy winners like kitty litter
Any winter Fendi denim like a slender nigga
Looking in the mirror I can see the real contender
Celery for Eben Gregory I'm on my dinner
So what the fuck is ya telling me other than your gender
I'm a boss and I'm riding like a small vault
Niggas make your wheels
 and 
ride 'til they fall off
Yea, Ross
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Lil Wayne]
Well Alright
All-black Maybach I'm sitting in the asshole
Classy as a mother still gutta like a bad bowl
Benjamin Franklin on Ex how the cash roll
That's right the mills do like damp clothes
I eat your meal too
 
we don't feel you
And we be strapping up like the Navy Seal do
Sweet as banana split everytime I peel through
Fresher than Will Smith and Uncle Phil too
Watching TV in the Maybach in traffic
I'm on my feet like Tough Actin' Tinactin
I'm running this shit, you should try tackling
Lil Wayne in one word: immaculate
You see the Big, you see the Jay, the Tu-pack in him
The Kurt Cobain, the Andre Three Stacks
And then I'm back to doing shit like I do's in Maybach music


[Produced by Dave Tozer, Da Internz, Kanye West & Nana Kwabena]
[Hook: John Legend]
I was sent here for you
We were made to love
We were made to love
You were sent for me too
We were made to love
We were made to love
[Verse 1: John Legend]
Oooh, I've never seen anything
It's much more than you and me
Extraordinary machine
Oooh, I've never loved, I've never loved
Never loved someone like this
All I know is...
[Hook]
[Interlude]
All made for love, we were made to love...
[Hook]
[Verse 2: John Legend]
Oooh, have you ever known
We laid your eyes on
The perfect work of art
I knew right from the start
Oooh, I was never sure of a God before
But I know he must exist
He created this...
[Hook]
[Interlude]
[Hook]
[Outro]
I was sent here for you
You was sent for me too
I was sent here for you
You was sent for me too


[Intro: Fuzzy Jones]
Well
It is a weeping
And a moaning
And a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping
And a mourning
And a gnashing of teeth
It is a
When it comes to my sound which is the champion sound
Believe (believe)
[Hook]
Okay Lamborghini Mercy (Swerve)
Your chick, she so thirsty
I'm in that two-seat Lambo with your girl
She tryna jerk me
[Verse 1: Big Sean]
Drop it to the floor, make that ass shake
Whoa, make the ground move, that's an ass quake
Build a house up on that ass,
 
that's an ass-tate
Roll my weed on it, that's an ass tray
Say Ye, say Ye don't we do this every day-day (huh?)
I work them long nights, long nights to get a pay day
Finally got paid, now I need shade and a vacay
(And niggas still hating) so much hate I need an AK
Now we out in Paris, yeah I'm Perriering
White girls politicking, that's that Sarah Palin
Getting high, Californicating
I give her that D, cause that's where I was born and raised in
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Pusha T]
Yuugh
Yeah it's prime time, my top back, this pimp game ho
I'm red leather, this cocaine, I'm Rick James ho
I'm bill-dropping Ms. Pac-Man, this pill popping-ass ho
I'm popping too,
 
these blue dolphins need two coffins
All she want is some heel money, all she need is some bill money
He take his time, he counts it out, I weighs it up, that's real money
Check the neck, check the wrist, them heads turning, that's exorcist
My Audemar like Mardi Gras, that's Swiss time and that's excellence
Two-door preference, roof gone, George Jefferson
That white frost on that pound cake so your Duncan Hines is irrelevant
Lambo, Murcie-lago, she go wherever I go, wherever we go, we do it pronto
[Hook]
[Interlude: Fuzzy Jones]
Well, it is a weeping and a mourning and a gnashing of teeth in the
 
dancehall
And who no have teeth gwan rub pon them gums
 
cause
When time it comes to my sound, which is the champion sound
The bugle has blown fi many times, and it still have one more time left
Cause the amount of stripe weh deh pon our shoulder
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Let the suicide doors up
I threw suicides on the tour bus
I threw suicides on the private jet
You know what that mean, I'm fly to death
I step in Def Jam buildin' like I'm the shit
Tell 'em give me fifty million or I'm-a quit
Most rappers' taste level ain't at my waist level
Turn up the bass 'til it's up-in-your-face level
Don't do no press but I get the most press, kid
Plus, yo my bitch make your bitch look like Precious
Something about Mary,
 
she gone off that Molly
Now the whole party is melted like Dalí
Now everybody is movin' they body
Don't sell me apartment, I'll move in the lobby
Niggas is loiterin' just to feel important
You gon' see lawyers and niggas in Jordans
[Verse 4: 2 Chainz]
Ok, now ketchup to my campaign, coupe the color of mayonnaise
I'm drunk and high at the same time, drinkin' champagne on the airplane (Tell em!)
Spit rounds like the gun range, beat it up like Rampage
100 bands, cut your girl, now your girl need a Band-Aid
Grade A, A1,
 
chain the color of Akon
Black diamonds,
 
backpack rhyming, co-signed by Louis Vuitton (Yup!)
Horsepower, horsepower, all this Polo on I got horsepower
Pound of this cost four thousand,
 
I make it rain, she want more showers
Rain pourin'
All my cars is foreign, all my broads is foreign
Money tall like Jordan
[
Hook
]


[Intro: Fuzzy Jones]
Well, it is a weeping and a moaning and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping and a mourning and a gnashing of teeth
It is a - when it comes to my sound which is the champion sound
Believe (believe!)
[Hook]
Okay Lamborghini Mercy, your chick, she so thirsty
I'm in that two seat Lambo with your girl, she tryna jerk me
[Verse One: P-Stunna]
What's poppin? Stunna bout to punish
Why would I enter a contest, I already won this
Cause of you people I do not have a private jet
I spit fire on the track, make the beat sweat
Resorting back to my old ways
Sitting in class, caught up in a daze
You been amazed
I been afraid
Of what the game
Gon do to me when I achieve fame
Bend the frame
Break the mold
I just started, you already came
But guess which one of us is getting old
Way too cold
I pimp them hoes
Girl hit the flo
What size are those
That's pocket change
Polo, I ain't got no Hanes
You can buy my CD, or pirate the thang
Still got a hot dame
Giving me brain
No Mercy, ho, give me back my pimp cane
O-Town Spitters
And Daz roll with us
Blunts the size of King Kong's fingas
Us three guys against these little niggas
Did it way before Clip but let's see who make it bigger
I'm a pimp going on a whore binge
Smoke sour like an orange
Capture the rap game-Wurmple
Put the blunt down and sip on some purple
[Verse Two: Tha Clip]
In the game on Mercy
What I'm saying is firstly
This is what I'm doing seriously
But I'm not in it commercially
Last verse but in first place
Hit em probably in the worst way
Like zombies be throwing up, people getting sick of your face
This is what I'm up in
You ain't nothing
So quit bluffing
Calling yourself burglars
I ain't never heard worse
Daz and Stunna's beef squashed
Get a grill, we'll make burgers
Speaking of which I'm hungry
Eat rappers like nothing
Too bad I spit them out
These hoes be putting out
Immature like a pudding pouch
Causing a fire up in here, too bad you can't put it out
[Hook repeat]


[Intro: Fuzzy Jones]
Well
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
When it comes to my sound which is the champion sound
Okay
[Verse 1]
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
(Well) Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Wrarrr) Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Wrarrr) Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
[Verse 2]
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Okay
[Verse 3]
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh
[Hook x4]
Okay Lamborghini Mercy
Your chick, she so thirsty
I'm in that two-seat Lambo with your girl
She tryna jerk me
[Verse 5]
Waaaaaaaaaaaaaaa Wu-waaaaaaaaaaaaaa
Wu-waaaaaaaaaaaa Wu-waaaaaaaaaaaaaa
Wu-waaaaaaaaaaaa Wu-waaaaaaaaaaaaaa
Wuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
When it comes to my sound which is the champion sound
Okay
[Verse 6]
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Wrarrr)Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Wrarrr)Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
(Well) Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Wrarrr) Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Wrarrr) Woo wu-woo
Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo Woo (Cha-ching) Woo Wu-woo
[Verse 7]
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Nah Nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah-nah nah-nah
Okay
[Verse 8]
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh Du-duh
Duh Duh Duh Du-duh Duh Duh Duh
[Outro]
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
It is a weeping, and a moaning, and a gnashing of teeth
When it comes to my sound which is the champion sound


[Kanye West]
We should’ve never ever let Michael Jordan play for the Wizards
We should’ve never ever let Michael Jordan play for the Wizards
We should’ve never ever let MJ play for the Wizards
Why did that happen?
Why did that happen?
We should’ve never ever let MJ play for the Wizards
We couldn’t stop — we would stop — MJ playing for the Wizards
Why did that happen?
Six championships
The best years of our life
Playing through the flu
Every single night
I believed I could fly
And I wanted to be just like Mike
I believed I could fly
And I wanted to be just like Mike
We should’ve never ever let MJ play for the Wizards
Why did that happen?
Does anybody here know why that happened
?
When a player
When a player wants to become an owner
When a player
When a player that’s done more for the league than the league could’ve done for him
When a player that made the NBA wants to become an owner of the team that he brought so much glory to, a team he brought so much story to
A team that has his statue in the front of the motherfucking building
But do you know what the owners of that team told MJ?
You’re just a player, homeboy
You can’t get no pay
You can’t own shit
They told Michael Jordan he couldn't own shit!
We should’ve never ever let MJ play for the Wizards
We should’ve never ever let MJ play for the Wizards
Now y’all know why MJ went to play for the Wizards
Because this very team wouldn’t let him be an owner
I’m talking about one of the most important people in our civilization
One of the most influential people in our civilization
They tried to marginalize
And in order to make his point he had to put on a motherfucking Wizards jersey
To let y’all know “Oh yes I am gonna be an owner just like Magic Johnson”
We should’ve never let MJ ever play for the Wizards
Never never never never let him go
Because til I die MJ represents the Bulls
So tonight I’m about to put my 23 on
So tonight I gotta put my 23 on


TRACK 1: Dark Fantasy
(K. West, R. Diggs, E. Wilson, J. Bhasker, M. Dean, M. Jones, J. Anderson, M. Oldfield)
Please Gimme My Publishing/
EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Ramecca Music/Universal Music-Careers Publishing (BMI)/Let The Story Begin Publishing/Chrysalis Songs (ASCAP)/Way Above Music (BMI)|Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Copyright Control/Warner-Tamerlane Publishing Corp. (BMI)/Opio Publishing (BMI), all rights administered by Warner-Tamerlane Publishing Corp. (BMI)/Stage Three Songs (ASCAP) 0/b/o Stage Three Music Ltd. and Oldfield Music Ltd. (PRS)
Produced by The RZA, Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978 & 
No ID for Rich Daily Since 71
Additional production by Jeff Bhasker & Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & Mike Dean
 for Dean’s List Productions at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein at Glenwood Place Studios, Burbank, CA and Platinum Sound Recording, NYC
Mixed by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 & Andrew Dawson at Platinum Sound Recording, NYC
Assisted by Gaylord Holomalia, Christian Mochizuki & Phil Joly
Keyboards: Jeff Bhasker
Piano: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Cello: Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Cello Arrangement: Jeff Bhasker & Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Background Vocals: Nicki Minaj, Justin Vernon (Bon Iver)
Additional Vocals: Teyana Taylor and Amber Rose
Nicki Minaj appears courtesy of Young Money/Universal Motown
Justin Vernon (Bon Iver) appears courtesy of Jagjaguwar Records
Teyana Taylor appears courtesy of Star Trak, LLC
Contains samples of “In High Places” by Mike Oldfield, under license and courtesy of Mercury Records Limited. Written by Jon Anderson and Mike Oldfield and published by Warner-Tamerlane Publishing Corp. (BMI) and Opio Publishing (BMI). All rights administered by Warner-Tamerlane Publishing Corp. (BMI)/Stage Three Songs (ASCAP) o/b/o Stage Three Music Ltd. and Oldfield Music Ltd. (PRS). All Rights Reserved
TRACK 2: Gorgeous
 feat. 
KiD CuDi
 & 
Raekwon
(K. West, E. Wilson, 
M. Dean
, M. Jones, C. Smith, 
C. Woods
, 
S. Mescudi
, G. Clark, R. McGuinn)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc.(BMI)/Let The Story Begin Publishing/Chrysalis Songs (ASCAP)/Copyright Control/Universal Music-Careers (BMI)/Elsie’s Baby Boy Publishing (ASCAP)/Gene Clark Music (BMI) administered by Bug Music (BMI)/Chrysalis One Music Publishing Group, Ltd. (IMRO). All rights on behalf of Chrysalis One Music Publishing Group Ireland administered by Chrysalis One Songs (BMI)
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978, No ID for Rich Daily Since 71 & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer, 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 & Christian Mochizuki at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein & Phil Joly at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by Anthony Kilhoffer at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Assisted by Christian Mochizuki, Pete Bischoff & Phil Joly
Guitars, Bass, Organ: Ken Lewis
Keys, Drum Programming: Brent Kolatalo
Guitar Solo: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Cello: Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Background Vocals: Tony Williams
KiD CuDi appears courtesy of Universal Motown Records
Contains portions of the composition “You Showed Me,” written by Gene Clark and Roger McGuinn, published by Gene Clark Music (BMI) administered by Bug Music (BMI). Used by permission. Contains elements of “You Showed Me” by Roger McGuinn and Gene Clark © 1965; Copyright Renewed. Chrysalis One Music Publishing Group Ireland, Ltd. (IMRO). All rights on behalf of Chrysalis One Music Publishing Group Ireland administered by Chrysalis One Songs (BMI). All Rights Reserved. Published by Horipro Entertainment Group Inc. d/b/a Sixteen Stars Music (BMI)
TRACK 3: POWER
(K. West, L. Griffin Jr., M. Dean, J. Bhasker, A. Gardner, K. Lewis, F. Bernheim, J. P. Lang, B. Bergman, R. Fripp, M. Giles, G. Lake, I. McDonald, P. Sinfield)
Please Gimme My Publishing|EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Vohndee’s Soul Music Pub. (ASCAP)/Papa George Music (BMI)/Way Above Music (BMI)|Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Dwele Music (ASCAP)/Kenobi Songs Pub. (BMI)/Warner Chappell Music France (SACEM)/EMI Music Publishing (ASCAP) administered by WB Music Corp. (ASCAP)/Universal Music MGB NA LLC d/b/a Universal Music Careers (BMI)
Produced by S1 & Kanye West
Additional Production by Jeff Bhasker, 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 & Andrew Dawson
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI
Mixed by Manny Marroquin at 
Larrabee Studios, Los Angeles, CA
Assistant Mix Engineers: Christian Plata & Erik Madrid
Keyboards: Jeff Bhasker & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Guitar & Bass: Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Cello: Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Additional Vocals: Dwele
Chant Vocals: Alvin Fields & Ken Lewis
Engineered by Ken Lewis & Brent Kolatalo
Handclaps performed by Ian Allen, Wilson Christopher, Uri Djemal & Chris Soper
Dwele appears courtesy of E1 Music
Contains elements from the Cold Grits recording “It’s Your Thing,” produced under license from Rhino Entertainment Company, a Warner Music Group Company
Contains elements of “Afromerica” (Francois Bernheim/Jean-Pierre Lang/Boris Bergman) published by Warner Chappell Music France (SACEM)/EMI Music Publishing (ASCAP). All rights administered by WB Music Corp. (ASCAP). All Rights Reserved
Contains material sampled from “21st Century Schizoid Man” performed by King Crimson Taken from the album: In The Court Of The Crimson King and composed by Fripp, McDonald, Lake, Giles & Sinfield (Universal Music Careers on behalf of E.G. Music Ltd. (BMI). Appears courtesy of DGM Ltd. on behalf of King Crimson
TRACK 4: All Of The Lights (Interlude)
TRACK 5: All Of The Lights
(K. West, J. Bhasker, M. Jones, W. Trotter)
Please Gimme My Publishing|EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Way Above Music (BMI)|Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Copyright Control
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978
Co-Produced by Jeff Bhasker
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI & Noah Goldstein at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Rihanna’s vocals recorded by Marcos Tovar at Westlake Sound Studios, Los Angeles, CA
Mixed by Anthony Kilhoffer at Electric Lady Studios, NYC & Westlake Sound, West Hollywood, CA
Assistant Engineers: Christian Mochizuki, Pete Bischoff & Phil Joly
Keyboards: Jeff Bhasker & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Piano: Elton John
Brass and Woodwinds: Danny Flam, Tony Gorruso & Ken Lewis
Horn Arrangement: Ken Lewis
Engineered by Brent Kolatalo
Orchestral Arranger & Conductor: Rosie Danvers
Producer: Tommy D
Trumpets: Mike Lovatt, Simon Finch, Andy Gathercole
French Horns: Tim Anderson, Tom Rumsby, Richard Ashton
Trombone: Mark Frost, Philip Judge
Flute: Chloe Vincent
Violins: Kotono Sato, Jenny Sacha
Viola: Rachel Robson
Cello: Rosie Danvers, Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Cello Arrangement: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Additional Vocals: Rihanna, KiD CuDi, Tony Williams, The-Dream, Charlie Wilson, John Legend, 
Elly Jackson (La Roux),
 Alicia Keys, Elton John, Fergie, Ryan Leslie, Drake, Alvin Fields & Ken Lewis
KiD CuDi appears courtesy of Universal Motown Records
Charlie Wilson appears courtesy of Jive Records
John Legend appears courtesy of 
Getting Out Our Dreams
/Sony BMG Music Entertainment
Elly Jackson (La Roux) appears courtesy of Interscope Records
Alicia Keys appears courtesy of J Records
Elton John appears courtesy of Mercury Records Limited
Fergie appears courtesy of Interscope Records
Drake appears courtesy of Young Money Entertainment/Cash Money Records
TRACK 6: Monster
 
feat. JAY-Z,
 
Rick Ross,
 
Nicki Minaj
 
& Bon Iver
(K. West, 
S. Carter
, P. Reynolds, M. Dean, 
W. Roberts
, 
O. Maraj
, J. Vernon, J. Bhasker)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/EMI April Music, Inc./Carter Boys Music (ASCAP)/Copyright Control/Copyright Control/First-N-Gold Publishing/Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Harajuku Barbie Music (BMI)/April Base Publishing (ASCAP)/Way Above Music (BMI)|Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978
Additional production by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 & Plain Pat
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI
Mixed by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Electric Lady Studios, NYC and Glenwood Place Studios, Burbank, CA
Assisted by Gaylord Holomalia, Christian Mochizuki & Pete Bischoff
Piano: Jeff Bhasker
Background Vocals: Justin Vernon (Bon Iver)
Nicki Minaj appears courtesy of Young Money/Universal Motown
Bon Iver appears courtesy of Jagjaguwar Records
TRACK 7: So Appalled
 feat. Swizz Beatz, 
JAY-Z,
 
Pusha T,
 
Prynce Cy Hi
 & The RZA
(K. West, E. Wilson, M. Dean, 
S. Carter
, 
T. Thornton,
 C. Young, K. Dean, R. Diggs, M. Mann)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Let The Story Begin Publishing/Chrysalis Songs (ASCAP)/Copyright Control/EMI April Music, Inc./Carter Boys Music (ASCAP)/Neighborhood Pusha Publishing (BMI)/Bu Vision/Swizz Beats Publishing (SESAC)/Ramecca Music/Universal Music-Careers Publishing (BMI)/Scalehand Limited
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978 & No ID for Rich Daily Since 71
Co-Produced by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein & Pete Bischoff at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Assisted by Gaylord Holomalia, Christian Mochizuki & Pete Bischoff
Keyboards: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 & Jeff Bhasker
Cello: Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Cello Arrangement: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Contains samples of the Manfred Mann’s Earth Band recording “You Are – I Am.” Produced under license from 
Warner Bros. Records Inc.
 by arrangement with Rhino Entertainment Company, a Warner Music Group Company. Used courtesy of Creative Music Limited. Written by M. Mann, published by Scalehand Limited
TRACK 8: Devil In A New Dress
 
feat. Rick Ross
(K. West, R. Harrell, M. Dean, W. Roberts, M. Jones, C. King, G. Goffin)
Please Gimme My Publishing|EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/One Shot Deal Muzak (SESAC)/Copyright Control/First-N-Gold Publishing/Sony/ATV Songs, LLC (BMI)/Screen Gems-EMI Music Inc. (BMI)
Produced by Bink! for One Shot Deal
Additional Production by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Assisted by Gaylord Holomalia, Christian Mochizuki & Pete Bischoff
Bass, Guitar & Piano: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Contains samples of the recording “Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow” as performed by Smokey Robinson. Courtesy of Motown Records under license from Universal Music Enterprises. Used by permission. All rights reserved
Written by C. King and G. Goffin, published by Screen Gems-EMI Music Inc. (BMI)
TRACK 9: Runaway feat. Pusha T
(K. West, E. Haynie, T. Thornton, J. Bhasker, M. Dean, M. Jones, J. Branch)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Heavycrate (ASCAP)/Sony ATV/Neighborhood Pusha Publishing (BMI)/Copyright Control/Way Above Music (BMI)|Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Metrolina Pub. Co. Inc. (BMI)
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978
Co-Produced by 
Emile
, Jeff Bhasker & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI
Assisted by Christian Mochizuki
Mixed by Anthony Kilhoffer at Westlake Sound Studios, Los Angeles, CA
Assistant Mix Engineer: Cary Clark
Background Vocals: Tony Williams
Additional Vocals: The-Dream
Keyboards: Jeff Bhasker
Cello: Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Contains a sample of “Expo 83” performed by Backyard Heavies, used courtesy of Gusto Records. Written by J. Branch and published by Metrolina Pub. Co. Inc. (BMI)
Contains excerpts from Rick James ‘Live at Long Beach, CA’ 1981
Courtesy of Universal Music Enterprises. Used by permission. All rights reserved
TRACK 10: Hell Of A Life
(K. West, M. Caren, E. Wilson, M. Dean, S. Stewart, T. White, T. Butler, A. Iommi, J. Osbourne, W. Ward)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Mike Caren Publishing Designee/Let The Story Begin Publishing/Chrysalis Songs (ASCAP) Papa George Music (BMI)/Clears Music, Inc. (BMI)/Combine Music Corp. (BMI)/Essex Music International
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978
Co-Produced by Mike Caren, No ID for Rich Daily Since 71 & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
 at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
, Anthony Kilhoffer & Andrew Dawson at Electric Lady Studios, NYC & Platinum Sound Recording, NYC
Assisted by Gaylord Holomalia, Christian Mochizuki & Pete Bischoff
Additional drum programming: Anthony Kilhoffer
Keyboards: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Additional Vocals: Teyana Taylor & The-Dream
Teyana Taylor appears courtesy of Star Trak, LLC
Contains samples of the Mojo Men recording “She’s My Baby.” Produced under license from Rhino Entertainment Company, a Warner Music Group Company. Written by Sylvester Stewart, published by Clears Music, Inc. (BMI). All Rights Reserved
Contains samples of the Tony Joe White recording “Stud-Spider.” Produced under license from Warner Bros. Records Inc. by arrangement with Rhino Entertainment Company, a Warner Music Group Company. Written by T. White, published by Combine Music Corp. (BMI)
Contains portions of “Iron Man,” written by T. Butler, A. Iommi, J. Osbourne and W.T. Ward, published by Essex Music International
TRACK 11: Blame Game
 feat. John Legend
(K. West, J. Franks, K. Mitchell, M. Dean, J. Stephens, R. James)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/J. Franks Publishing|WB Music Group (ASCAP)/Copyright Control/Copyright Control/John Legend Publishing/Cherry River Music Corp. (BMI)/Chrysalis Music Ltd. (PRS) administered by Chrysalis Songs (BMI)
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop since 1978 & DJ Frank E for Side 3 Entertainment
Additional Production by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Recorded by Andrew Dawson at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein, Phil Joly & Ryan Gilligan at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
, Andrew Dawson & Anthony Kilhoffer at Platinum Sound Recording, NYC
Piano & Bass: 
Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions
Cello played & arranged by Chris “Hitchcock” Chorney
Poem by Khloe Mitchell
Additional Vocals: 
Chris Rock
 and 
Salma Kenas
John Legend appears courtesy of 
Getting Out Our Dreams
/Sony BMG Music Entertainment
Contains elements of “Avril 14” by Richard James. Published by Chrysalis Music Ltd. (PRS) administered by Chrysalis Songs (BMI). All rights reserved
TRACK 12: Lost In The World
 
feat. Bon Iver
(K. West, J. Bhasker, M. DiBango, J. Brown, J. Vernon, G. Scott-Heron)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Way Above Music (BMI)/Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Universal Musica Inc. (ASCAP) o/b/o Universal Publishing SAS (SACEM)/Unichappell Music, Inc. (BMI)/Dynatone Publishing Co. (BMI)/April Base Publishing (ASCAP)/Brouhaha Music (ASCAP)
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978
Co-Produced by Jeff Bhasker
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by Anthony Kilhoffer at Henson Studios, Los Angeles, CA
Assisted by Alex Graupera, Christian Mochizuki & Pete Bischoff
Keyboards: Jeff Bhasker
Additional Drum Programming: Anthony Kilhoffer (
T. THORNTON
, 
K. WEST
, 
S. SARTOR
) (BMI/SEBASTIAN SARTOR PUBLISHING DESIGNEE) PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST AND SEBASTIAN SARTOR RECORDED BY PAUL BAILEY AT THOMAS CROWN STUDIOS, VIRGINIA BEACH VA MIXED BY 
NOAH GOLDSTEIN
 AT NO NAME STUDIO, NYC ADDITIONAL MUSIC BY KEN LEWIS AND BRENT KOLATALO
 (T. THORNTON, D. CANNON, K. WEST, C. NJAPA, B. SIGLER, S. CARTER, C. MARTIN, A KING, J. MATTHEWS) (BMI/ASCAP) 
PRODUCED BY DON CANNON FOR CANNON MUSIC
, LLC AND KANYE WEST. 
ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY CHARLES M. NJAPA PKA 88-KEYS
 
RECORDED BY ANTHONY KILHOFFER
 
AT STUDIO SEINE, PARIS
 AND DON CANNON AT MEAN STREET STUDIOS, AT LANTA, GA MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS PRODUCTION COORDINATION FOR CANNON MUSIC BY KEKE AND AMY FOR COOKIES AND MILK. 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “SHAKE YOUR BOOTY” PERFORMED BY BUNNY SIGLER, USED COURTESY OF SONY MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT. WRITTEN BY B. SIGLER AND PUBLISHED BY WARNER-TAMERLANE PUBLISHING CORP. (BMI). USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF THE RECORDING “INTRO/A MILLION AND ONE QUESTIONS/RHYME NO MORE” PERFORMED BY JAY Z. COURTESY OF THE ISLAND DEF JAM MUSIC GROUP, UNDER LICENSE FROM UNIVERSAL MUSIC ENTERPRISES. WRITTEN BY S. CARTER AND C. MARTIN, PUBLISHED BY EMI BLACKWOOD MUSIC INC. (BMI)/EMI APRIL MUSIC INC. (ASCAP)/LIL LU LU PUBLISHING (ASCAP)/GIFTED PEARL MUSIC INC. (ASCAP). USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “POTS AND PANS” PERFORMED BY LUKE VIBERT, USED COURTESY OF UNIVERSAL MUSIC PUBLISHING LIMITED. WRITTEN BY A. KING AND J MATTHEWS, PUBLISHED BY UNIVERSAL MUSIC PUBLISHING LIMITED
 (T THORNTON, K. DEAN, K. WEST, C. BROWN)(BMI/SESAC) 
PRODUCED BY SWIZZ BEATZ FOR SWIZZ BEATZ PRODUCTIONS, INC.
 AND MONSTER MUSIC GROUP ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY KANYE WEST RECORDED BY PAUL BAILEY AT THOMAS CROWN STUDIOS, VIRGINIA BEACH, VA MIXED BY ANTHONY KILHOFFER AT THE SPOT STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA MIX ASSISTED BY KYLE ROSS CHRIS BROWN APPEARS COURTESY OF RCA RECORDS
 (T. THORNTON, K. WEST, 
R. BIRCHARD,
 W. ROBERTS, M. HAWKINS, J. HUTSON, L HUTSON, J. REAVES, W. NORMAN) (BMI/ASCAP) PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST AND HUDSON MOHAWKE RECORDED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT ISLAND SOUND STUDIOS, HAWAII MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT NO NAME STUDIO, NYC KEYS: DARHYL “DJ” CAMPER 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “GHET-TO-FUNK” PERFORMED BY DURALCHA, USED COURTESY OF THE NUMERO GROUP. WRITTEN BY W. NORMAN, PUBLISHED BY DUST INDEX (BMI)
 (T. THORNTON, P. WILLIAMS, R. EAST) (BMI/ASCAP) 
PRODUCED BY PHARRELL WILLIAMS
 RECORDED BY MIKE LARSON FOR I AM OTHER ENTERTAINMENT AND PAUL BAILEY RECORDED AT CIRCLE HOUSE STUDIOS, MIAMI FL AND THOMAS CROWN STUDIOS, VIRGINIA BEACH, VA ASSISTED BY MATTHEW DESRAMEAUX AND GENNARO SCHIANO DIGITAL ARRANGEMENT AND EDITING BY MIKE LARSON MIXED BY MIKE LARSON FOR I AM OTHER ENTERTAINMENT AT SETAI RECORDING STUDIO, MIAMI BEACH, FL ASSISTED BY ALEKS WHITE
 (T. THORNTON, R. LAMARRE, T. NASH) 
PRODUCED BY RICO BEATS FOR STARLIFE ENT
. & WILLIAM VICTOR MANAGEMENT AND TERIUS “THE DREAM” NASH FOR RADIOKILLARECORDS.COM SINCE 1977 RECORDED BY PATRICK THRALL AT SETAI STUDIOS, MIAMI BEACH, FL MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT NO NAME STUDIO, NYC
 (T. THORNTON, R. BIRCHARD, B. YEWAH, J. JENKINS, K. COSSOM) (BMI/ASCAP/WARNER TAMERLANE MUSIC PUBLISHING) PRODUCED BY HUDSON MOHAWKE 
CO-PRODUCED BY BOBBY “BEEWIRKS” YEWAH
 RECORDED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT ISLAND SOUND STUDIOS, HAWAII; PAUL BAILEY AT THOMAS CROWN STUDIOS, VIRGINIA BEACH, VA; AND TONY REY AT EASY LOVE STUDIOS, AT LANTA, GA MIXED BY ANTHONY KILHOFFER AT THE SPOT STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA AND NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT NO NAME STUDIO, NYC MIX ASSISTED BY KYLE ROSS
 (T. THORNTON, T. NASH, J. GLASS, J THYBO, N. JOHNSEN) (BMI/ASCAP/JEPPE THYBO PUBLISHING DESIGNEE (KODA)/NICK MARCUS PUBLISHING DESIGNEE (KODA) PRODUCED BY TERIUS “THE-DREAM” NASH FOR RADIOKILLARECORDS.COM SINCE 1977 ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY GLASS JOHN RECORDED BY BART SCHOUDEL AT SILENT SOUND STUDIOS, AT LANTA GA AND SETAI STUDIOS, MIAMI, FL MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT NO NAME STUDIO, NYC KELLY ROWLAND APPEARS COURTESY OF UNIVERSAL REPUBLIC RECORDS 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “AUDITION” PERFORMED BY THE ROBOTBOYS, USED COURTESY OF ROBOTSOUNDS. WRITTEN BY J. THYBO AND N. JOHNSEN, PUBLISHED BY PUBLISHING DESIGNEE OF JEPPE THYBO (KODA)/PUBLISHING DESIGNEE OF NICK MARCUS JOHNSEN (KODA)
 (T. THORNTON, K. WEST, E. NICKERSON, 
T. EPPS,
 
S. ANDERSON
, D SCROGGINS, S. KWESI) (BMI/ASCAP) PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST FOR VERY GOOD BEATS 
AND MANO FOR TREATED CREW
 RECORDED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT STUDIO DE LA SEINE, PARIS MIXED BY ANTHONY KILHOFFER AT THE SPOT STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA MIX ASSISTED BY KYLE ROSS 2 CHAINZ VOCALS RECORDED AND MIXED BY FINIS “KY” WHITE FOR KY RECORDINGS AT DEUCE STATION, AT LANTA, GA 2 CHAINZ APPEARS COURTESY OF THE REAL UNIVERSITY (T.R.U.)/THE ISLAND DEF JAM MUSIC GROUP 
CONTAINS A SAMPLE OF “U.F.O” PERFORMED BY ESG USED COURTESY OF FIRE RECORDS. WRITTEN BY D. SCROGGINS, PUBLISHED BY FIRE PUBLISHING.
 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “LGOYH” PERFORMED BY KWES, USED COURTESY OF WARP RECORDS. USED BY PERMISSION WRITTEN BY SEY KWESI, COURTESY OF WARP MUSIC LIMITED (ASCAP). ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
 (T. THORNTON, K. WEST, D. LAMB, A. KHAN, 
K.DUCKWORTH
, S. LAROCK, L. PARKER, H. BANKS C. HAMPTON, R. JACKSON, T. HORN, M. MCLAREN) (BMI/ASCAP) PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST AND NOTTZ ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY TWILITE TONE RECORDED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT STUDIO DE LA SEINE, PARIS MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT NO NAME STUDIO, NYC KENDRICK LAMAR APPEARS COURTESY OF TOP DAWG ENTERTAINMENT AFTERMATH ENTERTAINMENT/INTERSCOPE RECORDS 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “THE BRIDGE IS OVER” PERFORMED BY BOOGIE DOWN PRODUCTIONS, USED COURTESY OF PHASE ONE NETWORK, INC. WRITTEN BY S. LAROCK AND K. PARKER, PUBLISHED BY UNIVERSAL MUSIC-Z TUNES LLC (ASCAP). USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “(IF LOVING YOU IS WRONG) I DON’T WANT TO BE RIGHT” AS PERFORMED BY BOBBY BLAND. COURTESY OF GEFFEN RECORDS, INC. UNDER LICENSE FROM UNIVERSAL MUSIC ENTERPRISES. WRITTEN BY HOMER BANKS, CARL HAMPTON AND RAYMOND JACKSON, PUBLISHED BY IRVING MUSIC, INC. (BMI). USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “DO YOU LIKE SCRATCHIN’” PERFORMED BY MALCOLM MCLAREN, USED COURTESY OF UNIVERSAL MUSIC UK LIMITED. WRITTEN BY T. HORN AND M. MCLAREN PUBLISHED BY SONGS OF PEER LTD . (ASCAP)/DOWNTOWN MUSIC PUBLISHING (BMI). USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
 (T. THORNTON, K. WEST, 
N. WILBURN,
 L. PYARELAL, A. BAKSHI) (BMI/ASCAP) PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST CO-PRODUCED BY NO I.D. RECORDED BY ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT STRATOSPHERE STUDIOS, NYC & JUNGLE CITY STUDIOS, NYC ASSISTED BY KEITH PARRY AT JUNGLE CITY STUDIOS MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS ADDITIONAL PROGRAMMING BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AND CHE POPE ADDITIONAL INSTRUMENTS BY JEFF BHASKER ADDITIONAL VOCALS BY SHAWN “PECAS” COSTNER FUTURE APPEARS COURTESY OF A1/FREEBANDZ/EPIC RECORDS 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF THE RECORDING “MY NAME IS ANTHONY GONSALVES” AS PERFORMED BY KISHMORE KUMAR. COURTESY OF FONTANA INDIA, UNDER LICENSE FROM UNIVERSAL MUSIC INDIA PVT. LTD . USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED WRITTEN BY L. PYARELAL AND A. BAKSHI AND PUBLISHED BY UNIVERSAL POLYGRAM INTERNATIONAL, INC. (ASCAP)
 
CONTAINS SAMPLES FROM “BÔDAS DE SANGUE” BY MARCOS VALLE, USED COURTESY OF EMI RECORDS (BRAZIL)
UNDER LICENSE FROM EMI MUSIC MARKETING. WRITTEN BY M. VALLE, PUBLISHED BY COLGEMS-EMI MUSIC INC (ASCAP)
 (T. THORNTON, P. WILLIAMS) (BMI/ASCAP) PRODUCED BY PHARRELL WILLIAMS RECORDED BY MIKE LARSON FOR I AM OTHER ENTERTAINMENT AND PAUL BAILEY RECORDED AT CIRCLE HOUSE STUDIOS, MIAMI, FL AND THOMAS CROWN STUDIOS, VIRGINIA BEACH, VA ASSISTED BY MATTHEW DESRAMEAUX AND GENNARO SCHIANO DIGITAL ARRANGEMENT AND EDITING BY MIKE LARSON MIXED BY MIKE LARSON FOR I AM OTHER ENTERTAINMENT AT SETAI RECORDING STUDIO, MIAMI BEACH, FL ASSISTED BY ALEKS WHITE PHARRELL APPEARS COURTESY OF COLUMBIA RECORDS
EXECUTIVE PRODUCER: KANYE WEST EXECUTIVE PRODUCERS: TERRENCE “PUSHA T” THORNTON AND 
STEVEN VICTOR
 A&R; TERIUS “THE-DREAM” NASH A&R FOR RE-UP GANG: RENNARD “AB-LIVA” EAST A&R FOR G.O.O.D. MUSIC: CHÉ POPE A&R ADMINISTRATION: TERESE JOSEPH A&R; COORDINATION: LEESA D. BRUNSON AND SCOTT MARCUS MASTERED BY VLADO MELLER AT MASTERDISK NYC MARKETING: AKINAH RAHMAAN MANAGEMENT: STEVEN VICTOR [Produced by Kanye West, Mike Dean & Plain Pat]
[Intro: Bon Iver]
I shoot the lights out
Hide 'til it's bright out
Oh just another lonely night
Are you willing to sacrifice your life?
[Intro Verse: Rick Ross]
Bitch, I'm a monster, no-good blood-sucker
Fat motherfucker
 – 
now look who's in trouble
As you run through my jungles all you hear is rumbles
Kanye West samples
, 
here's one for example:
[Hook: Kanye West]
Gossip, gossip, nigga just stop it
Everybody know I'm a motherfucking monster
I'm-a need to see your fucking hands at the concert
I'm-a need to see your fucking hands at the concert
Profit, profit, nigga I got it
Everybody know I'm a motherfucking monster
I'm-a need to see your fucking hands at the concert
I'm-a need to see your fucking hands
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
The best living or dead hands down, huh
Less talk, more head right now, huh
And my eyes more red than the devil is
And I'm about to take it to another level, bitch
No matter who you go and get
Ain't nobody cold as this
Do the rap and the track, triple double no assists
And my only focus is staying on some bogus shit
Arguing with my older bitch, acting like I owe her shit
I heard that people sing raps to give the track pain
Bought the chain that always give me back pain
Fucking up my money so yeah I had to act sane
Chi nigga but these hoes love my accent
Chick came up to me and said
"This the number to dial
If you wanna make your #1 your #2 now"
Mix that Goose and Malibu I call it "Malibooyah"
Goddamn, Yeezy, how he hit them with a new style?
Know that motherfucker well:
 
"What you gonna do now?
Whatever I want to do. Gosh! It's cool now"
Know I'm gonna do, ah, it's the new now
Think you motherfuckers really really need to cool out
Cause you'll never get on top of this
So mommy, best advice is just to get on top of this
Have you ever had sex with a pharaoh?
Put the pussy in a sarcophagus
Now she claiming that I bruised her esophagus
Head of the class and she just won a swallowship
I'm living in the future so the present is my past
My presence is a present, kiss my ass
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Jay Z]
Sasquatch, Godzilla, King Kong, Loch Ness
Goblin, ghoul
, 
a zombie with no conscience
Question: What do these things all have in common?
Everybody knows I'm a motherfucking monster
Conquer, stomp ya,
 
stop your silly nonsense
Nonsense, none of you niggas know where the swamp is
None of you niggas have seen the carnage that I've seen
I still hear fiends scream in my dreams
Murder, murder in black convertibles
I kill the block, I murder the avenues
I rape and pillage your village, women and children
Everybody want to know what my Achilles heel is
Love, I don't get enough of it
All I get is these vampires and blood-suckers
All I see is these niggas I made millionaires
Milling about, spilling they feelings in the air
All I see is these fake fucks with no fangs
Trying to draw blood from my ice-cold veins
I smell a massacre
Seems to be the only way to back you bastards up
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Nicki Minaj]
Pull up in the monster automobile, gangsta
With a bad bitch that came from Sri Lanka
Yeah I'm in that Tonka color of Willy Wonka
You could be the king but watch the queen conquer
OK, first things first I'll eat your brains
Then I'm a start rocking gold teeth and fangs
Cause that's what a motherfucking monster do
Hair dresser from Milan that's the monster do
Monster
 
Giuseppe heel, that's the monster shoe
Young Money is the roster and a monster crew
And I'm all up, all up, all up in the bank with the funny face
And if I'm fake, I ain't notice cause my money ain't
So let me get this straight, wait, I'm the rookie?
But my features and my shows ten times your pay?
50K for a verse, no album out
Yeah, my money's so tall that my Barbiez got to climb it
Hotter than a Middle Eastern climate, violent
Tony Matterhorn, dutty wine it, wylin'
Nicki on them titties when I sign it
That's how these niggas so one-track-minded
But really really I don't give a F-U-C-K
Forget Barbie, fuck Nicki cause she's fake
She's on a diet but her pockets eating cheesecake
And I'll say bride of Chucky is child's play
Just killed another career, it's a mild day
Besides 'Ye, they can't stand besides me
I think me, you and Am should ménage Friday
Pink wig, thick ass, give them whiplash
I think big,
 get cash, 
make them blink fast
Now look at what you just saw
This is what you live for
I'm a motherfucking monster
[Outro: Bon Iver]
I crossed the line
And I'll let God decide
And I wouldn't last these shows
So I am heading home


[Rhymefest] + (Kanye)
Yeah, this joint right here man, is for all my blue collar niggas
In the Midwest goin through our struggle
We know things could be better, huh
And we just want a little mooore
[Hook 2X: Kanye] + (Rhymefest)
No matter how much I get (I want mooore)
Even when I talk my shit (I want mooore)
Every party on every list
And everybody want a life like this
But still (I want more)
[Rhymefest]
Look.. now I ain't goin for the okey-doke (nope)
You owe me dough?, you better pay me like you know we broke
This industry be tryin to strangle niggas in the choke
You think these rappers rich? These niggas out here sellin dope
You think it's crazy sayin, "If I had what he had"
But if you had what he had, nigga you'd be mad
Three kids, see dad broke-ass waitin on the royalties with no cash
Nice car, no gas, stuck at the pump
Had a lil' hot single now he's stuck in a slump
At the top of his section eight, straight waitin to jump
Like Milli Vanilli, now people just look at him silly
Sayin "That's umm - I forgot his name - who is he?"
He wanted (mooore) never really thought of the loss
Lookin for (mooore) everybody playin the boss
To get (mooore) now he just stuck in the sauce
Like white kids when they got cut off, "Daddy I want.." (mooore)
[Hook]
[Rhymefest]
Yeah, yeah, yeah
This go out to every man tryin to achieve and hold his own
Them ladies are nice, but you gotta leave them hoes alone
They'll take it and bro, break in your phone, call your boss up
(Where that nigga at?) Or tell your wife to try to break up your home
Now your baby momma takin your son, learn from mistakes I done
Yesterday we all naked and fun
I ain't thinkin of none, break in and cum, soon as you done run
This is real talk, nigga one-on-one
Between me and you, now this mano a mano
How you gon' catch mono from a ho that work at McDonald's
Now you lookin like the clown like Ronald
That's where Kells fucked up, cause young girls he decided to fondle
And I ain't fin' ta let HIV zip my bag
I started usin' rubbers again, it ain't that bad
You gotta take care of yourself mayne, don't get grabbed
Cause if you die, people be like "Aww that's too bad"
I want (mooore)
[Hook]
[Rhymefest]
Everybody so weak like, like, they afraid to speak
If you see that nigga violate then hit him in his cheek
Tryin to act like, like, you reppin the street
You ain't a gangsta, you a bitch with a beat
So it's time to make role call, then expose y'all
Adam & Eve shocked in the garden with no drawers
While niggas gettin popped on my block with no laws
I grew up with Disciples that'll smash ya gold off
I never plugged, cause I know that when you do that shit
You locked in for life, nigga yeah, etched in blood
But it's hard to get respect when you less than thug
And you ain't fin' to serve here if you ain't with us
Us meanin them, them meanin G.D
Gangster Disciples, the same ones that killed Cochise
So see, how he, well he, meanin me
Refused to be another nigga dead in the street
I wanted (mooore)
[Hook] - repeat 2X as music fades


(Foxy) Gyeah
(Shyne) Gyeah, walk with me
(Foxy)
Gyeah, 
It's like New York's been soft
Ever since my nigga Shyne been sittin' in prison
Yeah
[Verse 1] Shyne
Check it, sick things, sick rings, this shit is sickening
Sick chains sick aim, 
5th bang 5th frame
Bail money lawyers actin' funny when I come through
Hit 'em with a bundle on the humble
Couple notes,
 
seen Boy George with a Rolls
Shit, I want one too
What the fuck I'm gon' do
But get it if it's there to be gotten 'til I'm dried and rotten
And I'm rockin' sideways muthafucka crime pays
I need it, I'll get it, I got it, I'll chop it, I'll double the profit
And bubble the pockets, I'm living to die
Niggas talk fly 'til I walk by and pop somethin'
Muthafuckas forgot somethin', I'm not frontin'
This ain't rap, music this ain't that
You fuck around I'll have you sleepin' where the saints at
Sincerely yours Shyne muthafuckin' Po
Bitch get yo' bags hit the muthafuckin' do'
[Hook] (2x)
May the angels walk with me, more or less
Big things, big rims nigga, more or less
Fuckin' big stars in big cars, more or less
I can say I seen it all and done it all, more or less
[Verse 2]
A G is a G, a ki is a ki, a snitch is a fish (as in kilo)
With no fins that can't swim when I dump him in the river
Charcoal gray R, 12 cylinders bulletproof sentences
Trial day tentative
I sound like who? ya'll sound like trash
Get off my dick and pass my cash
They don't do it cause I rap about it
I rap about it cause they do it
My music's the conduit to a ticket, I live it
Bitch nigga, I cook it and pitch it
Wipe the prints up off the shit and ditch it, uh
Hip-Hop ain't responsible for violence in America
America's responsible for violence America
Back to the flow nose full of blow
Rolls full of hoes, leave a nigga clothes full of holes
The schools didn't want me so the drug dealers taught me
Simple math, step on it twice and bring it back
Get 4 times what you paid, divide the labor costs
And still come away with enough to play
And I see the same shit in niggas younger than me
Runnin' the streets lookin for somethin' to eat
[Hook] 2x
[Verse 3]
Ole boy betta get down better run for cover
When I spit rounds ah you in some shit now
Get found slit down to the white meat
I'm from Brooklyn, Vietnam
 nigga, I like beef
But being a bird in the street, double plight
Livin' a troubled life, father was a jerk
Moms had to work, papi had the works
So I did what any real nigga would do
Got in front the stove, now I got this shit sold
Fuck you punk niggas wit' yo' punk cash
Let the pump blast, put yo punk ass in the trunk fast
The fuck y'all thought
I bury niggas in walls, I'mma trill muthafucka after all
Point blank shootin niggas point blank all the way to the bank
Rip yo face off then I take off
The difference between me and them, you won't be seein' them
No more, nigga, secrets of war
[Hook] 4x


[Kanye West]
Yo Bump, I just want to make sure everybody knew who did the track
Kanye-to-the
[Hook: Bump J]
Shawty you know the game's
Bout pickin' and choosin'
You don't know when you won
You so used to losin'
Move around now, move around now
Move around now, move around move
I know you see me tryna party homey
Give me that [??]
Don't make me up this 40 on me
And click ta clack boom!
Move around now, move around now
Move around now, move around move
[Verse 1: Bump J]
See there, it ain't poppin' 'less we there
Your barkin' better stop before I hit you with the three squared
That's a nine if you failed math
, I bail pass in that pale Jag
Cause I push weight and you sell bags
Come and cop that from me
My [diesel?] have cluckers noddin off like they ain't slept in weeks
Whoever disrespect the chief
I'll have the Tec put you pets to sleep
That's all you birds I catch singing to detects police
You ain't my dogs, you rats and you cats can rest in peace
I post up on a deck for weeks
You can ask K-West, I'm a [massive beast?]
I got a good name, and I spit good game
Tried ya baby mama out, and she got good brains
I look lames in the face and tell 'em
You ain't a Goon, you's a fruit, I'm a gansta mella
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Bump J]
I ain't going back to doing a book a day
I'm at this rap full time, my future's lookin' great
Feds not convinced, think I'm still movin' weight
Move around clowns, don't even look my way
Bump's a hustla, got cheddar to check in
For real you would die for whatever you reppin'
You smart, you would carry a weapon
Mines'll make you do a back flip better than Mary Lou Retten
I'll shoot somethin' up, I'm from grimeyville
You know it's shoes on that truck if I'm behind the wheel
They know me and so I got it locked I remind them still
Cause every line that I put up in a rhyme is real
And you wonder why the label shoot you down
Your album will never leave the shelf cause you's a clown
Look at me, flickin' somethin' serious through the town
You rap niggas couldn't be serious, move around now
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Bump J]
Look, I got a crazy flow so while you hatin' Joe
I'm off in Mejico posin', frozen H20
Around my neck and wrists, a couple ladies so
If I was to go tonight, it's all gravy Joe
Went from the US to USSR
In the best private jets nigga, you just test cars
But when I am on my land, I'm stylin'
My rims chop like the karate man from Shaolin
And the Goons hit the club, and pile in
We in these streets wildin', chumps where ya'll been?
We move around, I'm off on the islands sipping daiquiris
See why you niggas so mad at me
I'm enjoying the rewards of this hip hop
On the West Coast in my tank top and flip flops
Smoking something you can smell through the zip lock
Never find another nigga this hot, no
[Hook]


[Intro]
Inhale and I want you to exhale
And I want you to follow your breath
10...9...8...7...6...5...4...3...1
I'm off on the adventure (We're good)
This here is dedicated to all of the kids like me
I'm on my way to heaven (Wherever you are, now)
[Verse 1]
Birds sing, flying around
You never see them too long on the ground
You want to be one of them (Yeah)
You want to be one of them (Yeah)
You might hear the birds singing, flying around
You never see them too long on the ground
You want to be one of them (Yeah)
You want to be one of them (Yeah)
[Hook]
Woah now. Hey!
Mr. Rager, Mr. Rager
Tell me where you're going, tell us where you're headed
I'm off on the adventure, Mr. Rager
Tell me some of your stories, tell us of your travels
Hey! Mr. Rager, Mr. Rager
Tell me where you're going, tell us where you're headed
I'm on my way to heaven, Mr. Rager
Can we tag along, can we take the journey?
[Verse 2]
Knocked down, round for round
You're feeling like you're shot down on the ground
When will the fantasy end? (Yeah)
When will the heaven begin? (Yeah)
[Hook]
Woah now. Hey!
Mr. Rager, Mr. Rager
Tell me where you're going, tell us where you're headed
I'm off on the adventure, Mr. Rager
Tell us some of your stories, tell us of your travels
Hey! Mr.Rager, Mr.Rager
Tell me where you're going, tell us where you're headed
I'm on my way to heaven, Mr. Rager
Can we tag along? Can we take the journey?
[Break x7]
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
[Hook]
Yeah! Mr.Rager, Mr.Rager
Tell me where you're going, tell me where you're headed
I'm off on the adventure, Mr. Rager
Tell me some of your stories, tell us of your travels
Mr. Rager-er-er-er-er
Tell me where you're going, tell us where you're headed
I'm on my way to heaven, Mr. Rager
Can we tag along? Can we take that journey?
Can we take that journey?
I'm off on the adventure
[Outro]
Hey! Mr. Rager
Hey! Mr. Rager
Hey! Mr. Rager (I'm on my way to heaven)
Hey! Mr. Rager
Hey!
3...2...1...
Scott. Scott. Scott. Scott!
That's good. You alright?


[Produced by S1 and Swizz Beatz]
[ "Murder" ]
[Intro: Jay-Z]
Bloody murder, murder, murder
[Hook: Kanye]
Paper read "murder, black-on-black murder"
Paper read "murder, black-on-black murder" again
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
This is to the memory of Danroy Henry
Too much enemy fire to catch a friendly
Strays from the same shade nigga, we on the same team
Giving you respect, I expect the same thing
All-black everything, nigga you know my fresh code
I’m out here fighting for you, don’t increase my stressload!
Niggas watching the throne, very happy to be you
Power to the people, when you see me, see you
[Kanye]
And I’m from the murder capital where they murder for capital
Heard about at least three killings this afternoon
Looking at the news like "damn! I was just with him after school"
No shop class but half the school got a tool
And a "I could die any day"-type attitude
Plus his little brother got shot repping his avenue
It’s time for us to stop and redefine black power
41 souls murdered in fifty hours
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye]
Is it genocide?
Cause I can still hear his mama cry
Know the family traumatized
Shots left holes in his face about piranha-sized
The old pastor closed the cold casket
And said the church ain’t got enough room for all the tombs
It’s a war going on outside we ain’t safe from
I feel the pain in my city wherever I go
314 soldiers died in Iraq, 509 died in Chicago
[Jay-Z]
I arrived on the day Fred Hampton died
Uh, real niggas just multiply
And they say by 21 I was supposed to die
So I’m out here celebrating my post-demise
If you put crabs in a barrel to ensure your survival
You're gon' end up pulling down niggas that look just like you
What up, Blood? What up, cuz? It’s all black, I love us
[Hook]
["Excellence" (produced by S1)]
[Interlude: Jay-Z]
It’s a celebration of black excellence, black tie, black Maybachs
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
Black excellence, opulence, decadence
Tuxes next to the president, I’m present
I dress in Dries and other boutique stores in Paris
In sheepskin coats, I silence the lambs
Do you know who I am, Clarice?
No cheap cologne whenever I “shh-shh”
Success never smelled so sweet
I stink of success, the new black elite
They say my 
Black Card
 
bears the mark of the beast
I repeat: my religion is the beat
My verse is like church, my Jesus piece
Now please, domino, domino
Only spot a few blacks the higher I go
What’s up to Will? Shout out to O
That ain’t enough.. we gonna need a million more
"Kick in the door" Biggie flow
I’m all dressed up with nowhere to go
[Verse 4: Kanye]
Yeah it’s all messed up when it’s nowhere to go
So we won’t take the time out 'til we reach the T-O-P
From parolees to hold G’s, sold keys, low keys
We like the promised land of the OG’s
In the past if you picture events like a black tie
What the last thing you expect to see, black guys?
What’s the life expectancy for black guys?
The system’s working effectively, that’s why!
I’ll be a real man, take care of your son
Every problem you had before this day is now done
New crib, watch a movie
Cause ain’t nothin on the news but the blues
Hit the mall, pick up some Gucci
Now ain’t nothing new but your shoes
Sunday morning, praise the Lord
You're the girl that Jesus had been saving me for
So let’s savor this moment and take it to the floor
Black excellence, truly yours


[Kayne West]
You see I go by the name of Kan the Louis Vuitton Don
I'm with my home girl
Who need to hook me up with some of her home girls
Yeah, Janet Jackson
We back, baby
[Janet Jackson]
Don't matter what they say baby
They just don't know my baby
And how I feel about you
Cause you're so ooh
So many said we'd (never)
Never know love like this (but)
They never felt your kiss (felt your kiss)
And how good your touch could be (so)
Many a days I face the pressure to walk away (way)
From what the people say (people say)
[B-Section]
Baby(baby) these butterflies they never lie
Been thru so much pain before (and)
Baby (baby) - I had to try
Cause you're not like most guys
And I ain't ashamed to say that you're my
[Hook]
Baby (baby)
Don't matter what they say baby (baby)
They just don't know my baby
And how I feel about you
Baby (baby)
Don't matter what they say baby (baby)
I won't let go my baby
And how I feel about you
When you look in my eyes
I wish you could read my mind (and)
And know how I feel inside (feel inside)
And hear what they say about you
Just because they can't see (see)
You're more than enough for me (why)
Why can't they just let us be (can't they just let be)
And leave us alone
[B-Section]
[Hook(2x)]
[Kanye West]
I go by the name Kanye Omari
And I wrote this just to say I'm sorry
I have foreign cars and houses
I have porno stars and spouses
You tryin' to stab one like Jack the Ripper
I was tryin' to stab two like Jack the Tripper
My nigga Tone been locked for a minute
He come home, he from the street
He gon' want him some strippers
And I'm a big tipper I don't need to be trippin'
This my first Rolex it don't even be tickin'
This my first pair of earrings I can wear in the shower
Without them clouding up in half an hour
So that basically mean my paper getting mean
Basically mean I'm into better things
I was an addict of cheating but I stopped before
You an addict you go with Janet Jackson you cured
[Hook]
[Janet Jackson]
Don't matter what they say baby
They just don't know my baby
Don't matter what they say baby
I won't let go, my baby
But y'all don't know a thing about my
My baby (baby) My baby (baby)
There's more to his love than what y'all see
And it don't describe what he is to me


My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy Album Art










Additional Vocals: Justin Vernon (Bon Iver), Charlie Wilson, Kay Fox, Tony Williams, Alicia Keys, Elly Jackson (La Roux)
Tribal Drum Programming: Ken Lewis
Chant Vocals: Alvin Fields & Ken Lewis
Engineered by Brent Kolatalo
Justin Vernon (Bon Iver) appears courtesy of Jagjaguwar Records
Charlie Wilson appears courtesy of Jive Records
Alicia Keys appears courtesy of J Records
Elly Jackson (La Roux) appears courtesy of Interscope Records
Contains portions of “Soul Makossa,” written by M. DiBango and published by Universal Musica Inc. (ASCAP) o/b/o Universal Publishing SAS (SACEM)
Contains a sample of the recording “Think (About It)” as performed by Lyn Collins. Courtesy of Polydor Records under license from Universal Music Enterprises. Used by permission. All rights reserved. Written by James Brown, published by Unichappell Music, Inc. (BMI) & Dynatone Publishing Co. (BMI). All rights administered by Unichappell Music, Inc. (BMI)
Contains samples of “The Woods” performed by Bon Iver, used courtesy of Jagjaguwar, Inc. Written by Justin Vernon, published by April Base Publishing (ASCAP). All rights administered by Chrysalis Music (ASCAP). All Rights Reserved
Contains samples of “Comment No. 1” performed by Gil Scott-Heron, used courtesy of Flying Dutchman. Written by Gil Scott-Heron, published by Brouhaha Music (ASCAP)
TRACK 13: Who Will Survive In America
(K. West, J. Bhasker, G. Scott-Heron)
Please Gimme My Publishing/EMI Blackwood Music Inc. (BMI)/Way Above Music (BMI)/Sony ATV Songs LLC (BMI)/Brouhaha Music (ASCAP)
Produced by Kanye West for Very Good Beats/Hip Hop Since 1978
Co-Produced by Jeff Bhasker
Recorded by Andrew Dawson, Anthony Kilhoffer & Mike Dean for Dean’s List Productions at Avex Recording Studio, Honolulu, HI and Noah Goldstein at Electric Lady Studios, NYC
Mixed by Anthony Kilhoffer at Henson Studios, Los Angeles, CA
Assisted by Alex Graupera, Christian Mochizuki & Pete Bischoff
Keyboards: Jeff Bhasker
Additional Drum Programming: Anthony Kilhoffer
Additional Vocals: Justin Vernon (Bon Iver), Charlie Wilson, Kay Fox, Tony Williams, Alicia Keys, Elly Jackson (La Roux)
Tribal Drum Programming: Ken Lewis
Chant Vocals: Alvin Fields & Ken Lewis
Engineered by Brent Kolatalo
Justin Vernon (Bon Iver) appears courtesy of Jagjaguwar Records
Charlie Wilson appears courtesy of Jive Records
Alicia Keys appears courtesy of J Records
Elly Jackson (La Roux) appears courtesy of Interscope Records
Contains samples of “Comment No. 1” performed by Gil Scott-Heron, used courtesy of Flying Dutchman. Written by Gil Scott-Heron, published by Brouhaha Music (ASCAP)
Executive Producers: Shawn Carter, Kanye West, Gee Roberson & Kyambo “Hip Hop” Joshua
Executive Producer: 
Antonio “LA” Reid
A&R Direction: Patrick “Plain Pat” Reynolds and Don C
A&R Administration: Terese Joseph
A&R Coordination: Leesa D. Brunson
Mastered by Vlado Meller at Universal Music Studios East, NYC
Marketing: Al Branch for Hip Hop Since 1978 and Tracey Waples
Marketing for Def Jam: 
Chris Atlas
Management: Hip Hop Since 1978
Legal Counsel: Alison K. Finley, David Rappaport and Bea Koramblyum for Davis Shapiro Lewit & Hayes, LLP
Art Direction: Kanye West and Virgil Abloh
Paintings by George Condo © 2010
Handwritten Titles and Illustrations: M/M (Paris)
Package Designed at M/M (Paris)
Kanye West Photograph: Fabien Montique
Artwork Coordination: JP Robinson, Kristen Yiengst and Todd Russell
DVD Coordination: Davina Gazo
Package Production: Doug Joswick
Sample Clearances: Eric Weissman Music Licensing, Inc
Business Affairs: Randy McMillan, Antoinette Trotman, Ian Allen, Vol Davis III
(P)© 2010 Roc-A-Fella Records, LLC. Manufactured and Marketed by The Island Def Jam Music Group, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10019. Distributed by Universal Music Distribution. All rights reserved


All the bottle poppin'. Patron we rockin
[Kanye West]
Uh uh uh uh yeah
Me and Cass got flows until the beat run out
I told you motherfuckers before we in the house
And we standin on the couch
With my drink and my two step my drink and my two step
Three glasses in a row you start to think I was Q-tip
Bartender pour a round I took a few sips
Stubblin', fallin' down, 
I ain't drunk that's my new step
Now why would I listen to bullshit they shovel
When they taste level ain't at my waist level
I'm fly get on a plane jet lagged already
I'm tired, the Goyard bags is heavy
I'm fire the flow hard as a Chevy
I told her me like Ye, she said she like me, ha
When see my C.L, like Pete Rock
She just wanna grab a microphone and beat box
Even in high school I was already the special kid
First pack of condoms I asked for extra big
Now I got a flow they sit me right next to B.I.G
And all these old rappers don't know where the exit is
But but but but no buts nigga
What nigga
We fired motherfuckers, Donald Trump nigga
I'm killin' these niggas can't front niggas
Now let's drink to that until drunk niggas
[Hook: Swizz Beatz]
I got my drink and my two step
My drink and my two step
Got my drink and my two step
My drink and my two step
It's on, it's on, it's on and I'm home
Get the patron and tell them that it's on
All the Bottle poppin
Patron we rockin
All the Bottle poppin
Patron we rockin
Err Everybody drunk
Err Everybody drunk
And I'm home get the patron and tell them that it's on
[Cassidy]
It's remix time
We rich time
Shine like sequence time cause he did time
But then he came home grabbin' the Mics and bought rap back to life yea he that nice
I'm rocky like a package of white
You see that ice
Nigga please you never seen canaries that bright
I shine I make it look like day time at night
I could never turn the lights off until I take my ice off
Yellow and white chain Yellow and White cross
I been a boss ever since I took my diapers off
I like to floss I can get you and ya wife divorced
Ya'll separate before I take her on a second date
You can speculate who comin' in second place
Cause I got the number one record out check it out
I got my drink n my 2 step
It's on now
November 6 is the day that it's goin' on
[Hook]
[Ne-Yo]
So many shots that I can't see straight
All these women around me cats still sayin he can't be straight
Give me ya girl and some platinum patron
When she come home you can ask her is me straight
She might smile a lot but she won't speak much
Yawnin' cause last night she ain't sleep much
She won't even talk about what we did
Just smile close her eyes and say yes he is
I'm on my Rick James and it's a celebration
Neither are you little mama and here's another
Celebrate the return of the hustla
[Hook]
[Cassidy]
Yeah I go by the name of Buzz
My album be in stores November the 6
It's celebration time
Ne-Yo, Kanye, Swizz Beats, I appreciate y'all comin through doin' what y'all do
Y'all know we made history this time around
This one of the biggest remixes I ever heard
For real for real
This goin down real major
I'm out


[Intro]
(Nigga, uh)
Yeah, huh 
(nigga uh)
Why don't ya'll take a look into my life?
See what I see
(Nigga uh, nigga, nigga, nigga uh)
At the age of fourteen, introduced to
 
coupes
Learnin' how to seduce niggas takin' they loot
Quickly, got involved with this money lifestyle
The finer things, all kinda things, power, money
Cars and diamond rings
, 
in 9th grade flauntin'
The Gucci boots with the G's on it
A high price for this 'high price' life
While I'm on tour is my man cheatin' just for spite?
And if you only knew I hold my minks at nights with cheap
Or no other hands can hold me right
My girls ain't the same, guess it's cuz the fame
Bitches smile in my face and throw dirt on my name
Mad cuz I made it, now friends intimidated
Hate it that I'm in the same game as them
With mo' fame than them, they know who they are
This life is no joke, got us havin' to broke
You was my sister, we used to dream together
How we could make it real big, do our thing together
Huh, Thelma & Louise together, remember them days?
Them niggas we played? Now we don't even speak
Went our seperate ways, seperate lives
Lost friendship for pride, playin' the game
About to forfeit high price life, I can't afford it
1 - My life, do ya feel what I feel?
My life, a black girl's ordeal my life
Do ya see what I see?
Have you been where I've been?
Can you go where I go?
My life
Do ya'll know what it feels like?
Do ya'll know what it be like?
Do ya see what I see?
Have you been where I've been?
Can you go where I go?
Daddy's girl, in his wildest dreams
Said he think that lil' 
Ing
 will be 
ill
est in this 
rap-thing
Age 4 in my mother's shoes, swore I could sing
And even as a little girl I was doin' my thing
Uh, confused, I ain't asked to be born
Nigga so dumb, shoulda used a condom
Ask mommy every day, when daddy gon' come?
But he never showed up
I would pimp for them, became demented, then men?
Resented them, just the scent of 'em made me earl
'Specially the baller ones tryin' to buy me with pearls
All I needed was love, all I wanted was love
Lack of love had me fallin' for thugs
The niggas who ain't care, just like Daddy
If he ain't care, why should they?
For this 'high price' life, it's the price I pay
Repeat 1
All my girls cross the world that feel what I feel
Hearts bruised, then been way I been, keep it movin'
Let him do his thing, I'm the one he's lovin'
I'm here to show ya'll, havin' a kid ain't meanin' nuthin'
That ain't keepin' him, 'specially if he in love with another chick
Then you stuck with the 'babymother-shit'
Don't be lovin' niggas more than yaself
Let 'em roam, a dog always finds his way home
Shit, ya'll don't wanna take my place
, 
catchin' cases
Spit in faces
 
I never seen falsely accused
While some say it's rude
But if I was a dude, they all be amused
But I'm a woman, so I'm a bitch, simple as that
Double-standards, call him a Mack, call me a ho
Say I'm in it for the dough, but tell me
What tha fuck he in it for?
Wanted it all, now it's all mine
Loneliness, sorrow, confusion and pain
Nightmares, headlines, "Rapper found slain"
If it wasn't for my moms I'd drown in this pain
Now ya'll see what it's like, ya'll don't wanna be me
Cuz it ain't always what it seem on TV
Shit, but this is my '9 to 5' ya'll
Sometimes I wanna slit my wrist and end my life ya'll
Repeat 1 until fade


[Intro: Pusha-T]
You know what happen when G.O.O.D. Music and MMG get together, right?
We get that money
[Hook: Pusha-T] x2
Millions-millions in the ceiling
Millions-millions in the ceiling
Millions-millions in the ceiling
Millions-millions in the ceiling
Choppas-choppas in the closet
Choppas-choppas in the closet
Choppas-choppas in the closet
Choppas-choppas in the closet
[Verse 1: Pusha-T]
This that shit that y'all wanted
This shit cook up hard, don't it?
Y'all gotta beg my pardon on it
But this shit sound like God don't it?
Yuugh, I'm tired, nigga and y'all gotta pay your tithes, nigga
Call my Phantom the holy ghost, church on chrome wheel tires, nigga
Pop tags when I'm paranoid, cause the pawn shop was my paradise
I was dead pop when that powder came for that knot saved in that shoebox
Blue tops, blue tops,
 
bad bitch in that blue fox
This big face is in blu-ray and these black diamonds like boondocks
I restore the feelin' of when niggas made a killin'
Hidin' choppas in the closet, half a million in the ceiling
And them hoes with angel faces, cryin' loud with ill intentions
Just so I can buy them Christians, have 'em shittin' on all they bitches, ah!
[Hook] x2
[Verse 2: Rick Ross]
I'm haunted by horror stories, wanna-be home owners
Horrible outcome, a dope boy got one motive
Cries when he convicted, cried on every visit
I'm cryin' sayin' his name, ride for all my niggas
Used to fiddle my finger 'til I found me a fortune
Finger fuck a Ferrari, south of France early morning
Did drugs with Donatella,
 
Versace my a cappella
Never see me in Neiman's, niggas committin' treason
Soft loafer preferred,
 
frost, organic herb
Stay away from the Forbes, if I only could tell you more
I got this I got that, I got that I got this
Got a kilo for 20, my choppas say I'm the shit
[Hook] x2
[Verse 3: Pusha T]
This that shit y'all ask for
Make a nigga mash on the gas, floor
Two-door, four-door, roll through the hood like task force
Fast forward–oops! They say they wanna see proof
My record sales ain't much as theirs and we still ride the same coupes
How we still fuck the same hoes, why we still buy the same clothes
How we both got the same watch, I'm just keepin' y'all on y'all toes
Dope boys, gold mine, that price drop and that coke rise
Then set it over that blue flame then hang it dry like clothesline
I restore the feelin' of when niggas made a killin'
Hidin' choppas in the closet, half a million in the ceiling
Got the razor on the counter,
 
Arm & Hammer in the kitchen
Just to keep my feet in Christians and keep fuckin' all y'all bitches
[Hook] x2
[Outro] x4
This that shit that ya'll wanted
This shit sound like God don't it


[Hook]
I've lived
Yes I've lived a life that's full
I've traveled each, and every highway
Much more, much more than this
I did it my way...
[Verse 1]
It go my way, Chi-Way
This way or the highway
Shots'll lay you off on your day off, like Friday
The ROC got 'Ye, but they ain't snortin' it
They just got him up at Baseline recordin' shit
Yeah I've been broke
Now I'm good bitch
I ain't no Kennedy
But I'm hood rich
So I say my way to thank you to the ghetto
And everybody else, thank you very little
I took the road less traveled, the unbeaten path
I've been beatin', but never brokin' through the darkest past
It's sort of like when King spoke and said we free at last
Ain't nothin' free from that point, though
We needed cash
And we need it fast
We broker than Ethiopians just tryin' to eat at last
Now all the blacks cookin' up, they're almost white
Cause gettin' green makes 'em treat us like we almost white
Almost
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
It go my way, 
Chi-Way
This way or the highway
Niggas wanna diss K
On their local mix-tapes
There they go again, lyin' to consumers
Get their hair cut in the little shop of rumors
Your lil' sloppy with your cockyness ain't ya?
A little arrogant with all your comparisons
Cause as far as the Chi
I got the most plaques since the beginnin' of rap
And nah, y'all ain't mentionin' that
Y'all just talk about my dough
How I left Chicago
How I'm the only one eatin'
Shut your pie hole
And wanna figure out why I'm gettin' it high though?
Why? 
Cause you need fire, and I'm a pyro
!
And you a parrot, you copy what I do and say?
Only difference between you and me, you were gay
Awww, did he get his feelin's hurt?
Nawww, he's got titties under his shirt
[Hook]
[Hook]
It go my way, Chi-Way
This way or the highway
When you walk straight, niggas tend to look at you sideways
I say, fuck that, dog, I get my own way
Niggas ain't believe me, 'til they see me on TV
And seen K freely, gettin' head on the freeway
Then passin' up Freeway, just like it's a relay
We stay 4 stars or better
Cause the couches in the rooms got, more leather
And we gon' flip Carter, when we could afford better
And back, before Benzes, when we could afford Jettas
You still dress Ardjo, but only pay partial
Stay gettin' somethin' off lay-a-way at Marshall's
Polo and Carbesher's, we into them things dawg
Back in '96 we was livin' like kings dawg
40 cals or better, tottin' them things dawg
So up the turkish 
snake
, and take them rings off
[Hook]


[Intro: Kanye West]
What are they gon' tell me?
You know what I'm saying
I used to be in gym class like "Nigga, I'm finna be a rapper"
I didn't do my homework for my last three years of high school, nigga
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
So I'm assuming ya'll niggas don't know what you doing
You're not hot cause your tapes don't work
We can't stop, our brakes don't work
Man I heard you spit your favorite verse
It's the softest place on Earth
Ya'll some motherfucking idiots
Dropping enough bricks to build a city with
What the fuck is on your mind?
You sniffing that shit
My own blood, go on stud
Probably the reason that the phone bugged
Always talking fast as hell like Bone Thugs
You act like you don't know what the chrome does
Like what 2 shots to the dome does
Plus you kind of slow man
But if we listen to you
We all be broke like Gary Coleman
I'm trying to blow like Pokémane
And I don't want to have to choke you man
I'd rather go to bed, getting head on the sofa man
Yo but, aigh, it's over man
[Hook]
Nothing's gonna stop Nothing's gonna stop Nothing's gonna stop me!
(I said) Nothing's gonna stop Nothing's gonna stop Nothing's gonna stop me!
[Talk over Hook] Niggas can't be serious, you the only Nigga I know experience Y2K
You the only Nigga who lights went out fucking ?? 2000!
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Let's go man
I hate a gold digging bitch that want to get in my whip
Fuck fucking, I make her kiss the tip of my dick
You know what I'm here for cut all that crying and shit
Plus my nigga want a fit
Why don't you buy him some shit?
I'm from the land of the P-I-M-P
I got these hoes buying the weed and the optimos
Why you think my neck froze?
Why I got these clothes?
PSSH Man I gots to pose
Next to the, lex to the, benz fit ya, next time we, fuck, bring ya, friends with ya
And he doesn't take American Express
And he don't take hoes with small breast keep it moving (keep it moving)
I hate lame niggas, 
I hate gay niggas
, I hate a dick riding I-I-I I know Kanye Niggas
(So) 
save the talk and save the game how you gon con me when Kan half my name?
 
Nigga
[Outro]
I did about 4 or 5 beats for Nas
This nigga don't know how to pronounce my name because they always spell it wrong
Shit, you know I'm saying, I'mma I'mma tell it real, you know what I'm saying? That's not cool, y'all can't even...


[Intro: Jay-Z]
Never, never, never, never change
Ain't never changed, this is Jay every day
I never change!
I never change, this is Jay every day
I never change!
I never change, this is Jay
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
I am a, Roc representer
Hov, summer to winter, Hov, dead or alive
24/7, 365
One CD or three hundred and sixty pies
What's up to E and Kirk? Welcome home to Taj
Let no amount of money ruin this thing of ours
We run streets like, drunks run street lights
We colliding with life as we speak
We knee deep in coke, we ki deep in ice
We flood streets with dope, we keep weed to smoke
We all fish, better teach your folk
Give him money to eat, then next week he's broke
Cause when you sleep, he's reaching for your throat
Word on the skreet, you reap what you sow
Not out of fear but love, love for the game
Roc family first
, we never change 
man
[Hook: Kanye West]
I'm still fucking with crime cause crime pays
Out hustling, same clothes for days
I'll never change, I'm too stuck in my ways
I never change
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
What's up to my Miami and St. Thomas connects? (whattup)
I'll never mention your name, I promise respect
Death before dishonor correct? Yup
That's what you promised me, 
since the Bomber League
Along with, if we stay strong
We can get paper longer than Pippen's arms
Plead the fifth when it comes to the fam
I'm like a dog, I never speak, but I understand
Where my dogs at? Where my soldiers at war?
Where your balls at? Whoa, gotta pause that, whoa
Lost 92 bricks 
had to fall back
Knocked a nigga off his feet,
 
but I crawled back
Had A-1 credit, got more crack
From the first to the fifth, gave it all back
If, I'm not a hustler what you call that?
This is before rap, 
this is all fact
I never change
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
What, the streets robbed me, wasn't educated properly
Well fuck y'all, I needed money for Atari
Was so young my big sis' still playing with Barbie
Young brother, big city, eight million stories
Old heads taught me, youngin, walk softly
Carry a big clip, that'll get niggas off me
Keep coke in coffee, keep money smelling mothy
Chains is cool to cop but more important is lawyer fees
That's how it is now, that's how it'll always be
I never change, this is always me
From the womb to the tomb, from now until my doom
Drink Army from one cup pass it around the room (That's a family nigga)
That's the ritual
 (yup) 
Big Ran, I ain't forget you fool
And all that bullshit you trying to get through
This is crew love, move music or move drugs
Rival crews, get your black suits up
 - I'll never change
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Outro: Jay-Z]
This is Jay, every day
Who you know like Hov, nigga?


[Hook]
When it comes to being true, at least true to me
One thing I found, one thing I found
Oh no you never let me down
Get up, I get down
Get up, I get down
Get up, I get down
Get up, I get down
Get up, I get down
Get up, I get down
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Yo, first I snatched the streets then I snatched the charts
First I had they ear, now I have their heart
Rappers came and went, I've been here from the start
I seen them put it together, watched them take it apart
Seen the rovers roll up with ribbons
I seen them re-po'd, re-sold, then re-driven
So when I reload, he holds #1 position
When you hot I'm hot
And when your feet cold, mines is sizzling
It's plain to see, niggas can't fuck with me
Cause I'm a be that nigga for life
This is not an image, this is God given
This is hard livin', mixed with Cristal sippin'
It's the most consistent, Hov
Give you the most hits you can fit inside a whole disc and
Nigga I'm home on these charts, y'all niggas visitin'
It's Hov tradition, Jeff Gordon of rap
I'm back to claim pole position, holla at ya boy
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I get down for my grandfather
 
who took my mama
Made her sit in that seat where white folks ain't want us to eat
At the tender age of 6 she was arrested for the sit-ins
And with that in my blood I was born to be different
Now niggas can't make it to ballots to choose leadership
But we can make it to Jacob's and to the dealership
Swear I hear new music and I just don't be feelin' it
Racism's still alive, they just be concealin' it
But I know they don't want me in the damn club
They even made me show ID to get inside of Sam's Club
I done did dirt and went to church and get my hands scrubbed
Swear I've been baptized least 3 or 4 times
But in the land where niggas praise Yukons and getting paid
Its gonna take a lot more than coupons to get us saved
Like it take a lot more than doo rags to get you waves
Nothing sad as that day my girl's father passed away
So I promised to Mr. Rainey I'm gonna marry your daughter
And you know I gotta thank you for the way that she was brought up
And I know that you were smiling when you see the car I bought her
You sent tears from heaven when you seen my car get balled up
But I can't complain what the accident did to my left eye
Cause look what an accident did to Left Eye
First Aaliyah now Romeo must die
I know I got angels watching me from the other side
[Hook]
[Verse 3: J. Ivy]
We are all here for a reason on a particular path
You don't need a curriculum to know that you're a part of the math
Cats think I'm delirious but I'm so damn serious
That's why I expose my soul to the globe; the world
I'm trying to make it better for these little boys and girls
I'm not just another individual
My spirit is a part of this that's why I get spiritual
But I get my hymns from Him
So it's not me, it's He that's lyrical
I'm not a miracle, I'm a heaven sent instrument
My rhythmatic regiment navigates melodic notes
For your soul and your mental
That's why I'm instrumental,
 
vibrations is what I'm into
Yeah I need my loot by rent day
But that ain't what gives me the heart of Kunta Kinte
I'm trying to get us "us free" like Cinque
I can't stop, that's why I'm hot
Determination, dedication, motivation
I'm talking to you of my many inspirations
When I say I can't let you or self down
If I were on the highest cliff, on the highest riff
And if you slipped off the side and clinched on to your life
In my grip I would never ever let you down
And when these words are found
Let it be known that God's penmanship has been signed
With a language called love
That's why my breath is felt by the deaf
And while my words are heard and confined to the ears of the blind
I too dream in color and in rhyme
So I guess I'm one of a kind in a full house
Cause whenever I open my heart, my soul or my mouth
A touch of God reigns out
 (Take'em to the church)
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Jay-Z]
Who else you know been hot this long
 (
Oh yeah, we ain't finished
)
Started from nothing but he got this strong
 
(The Roc is in the building)
Built the ROC from a pebble
, 
peddled rock before I met you
 (Wooooo)
Peddled bikes,
 
got my nephews pedal bikes because they special
Let you tell it man I'm falling
Well somebody must have caught him
Every fourth quarter, I like to Mike Jordan them
Number one albums what I got, like four of them
More of them on the way, the 8th wonder on the way
Clear the way, I'm here to stay
Y'all can save the chitter chat, this and that
This is Jay, dissing Jay will get you maced
When I start spitting them lyrics niggas get very religious
Six Hail Mary's please Father forgive us
Young, the archbishop, the Pope John Paul of y'all niggas
They way y'all all follow Jigga
Hov's a living legend and I'll tell you why
Everybody wanna be Hov and Hov's still alive


Yo what you doing here huh?
(Hi I thought I'd drop by so nice to see you)
Nice to see you too okay
(It's been too long)
Yeah you can leave now
[Verse 1]
Kanye that nigga with heavy dough
Roll dro
 
and a chevy low
Told a long time ago you can't fuck every ho
Whether in Jamaica or Cancun, Mexico
Baby don't be scurred, shake that ass like Mystikal
We got physical now she calling and beeping
Call when I'm sleepin, call my girl claimin we creepin
Bitch you nuts, look I only fucked you once
How you gone get the message, I ain't called you in months
Acting like Super Dave with them dumb ass stunts
Talking bout girls I could get her whatever she want (Whatever I want)
I'm like girls like you be wanted for warrants
Stalking of course, alone on the phone disguising your voice
Got your girls asking for Kay on the three way
Talking bout (You can't call a bitch on her BDay?)
Hmm, Tanisha its over with stop playin
Nah nah it's over. (So what you saying?)
Look you gotta bounce.
 
(I don't wanna fuck with you)
(Get your hands off me!) Bitch I ain't touching you
Stop, Chill. Relax. okay
You know what she told me?
[Hook]
I'm never letting go
Never letting go
Never letting go
I'm crazy about you
(No you just crazy)
[Verse 2]
You believe this ho, 
pop up everywhere I go
Pop up at the show, pop up at the grocery store
Pop up in my kitchen like, "Oh you wash dishes here?"
Pop up in my bathroom, "Oh you take pisses here?"
Listen here we gone need some distance here
(Where I'm gone go?) I don't care, just disappear
You ain't my main bitch not even my main squeeze
Anyway, how the fuck you get a set of keys?
First she used them on my crib, then she used them on my whip
And wrote on the side, "Kanye you ain't shit"
You believe this bitch? Man, did you see this shit!?
Did she just knock my windows out on my Escalade? (Ha yeah nigga!)
That's a twelve fuckin' hundred dollar estimate
She must've took off all yesterday just to hate
Restraining orders ain't stopping her
She the reason caller I.D. so popular
Across the street now with some fuckin binoculars
Screaming at the top of her lungs, "I'm never letting go!"
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Had enough of the stalker shit got to put her in line
Count back from ten when I got to nine I grabbed mine
Before I gotta do what I gotta do after blue she lying
Like "Nigga you put your hands on me for the last time"
Tried to get you over your uncles to come and jump me
Take my cash and punk me
With my ass and trump me
I stump them fuckin chunkies
Just look at yo niece
She beat her own ass and called the police
(Pregnant with his baby yeah he still getting rough with me!)
And to my crib scuff me up and put the cuffs on me
My momma dropped that five hundo and got me out of custody
Girl left a note on my door (Nigga don't ever fuck with me)
And all the time I got to thinkin that I'm the man
Hottest nigga on the block and shit I got a fan
I'm like a swole nigga thought that he could lift the van
Somebody please come and take this bitch up off my hands!
You don't understand, man
[Hook]
Uh oh, uh oh, these hoes, these hoes, all the same, all the same
All want a nigga with a chain
Uh oh, uh oh, these hoes, these hoes, all the same, all the same
Want a nigga whippin that range
Uh oh, uh oh, these hoes, these hoes, all the same, all the same
Want a nigga banging they brains
Uh oh, uh oh, these hoes, these hoes, these hoes, these hoes, these hoes


[Verse 1]
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
They want me to hold my head in shame
So I hold 'em on...holding hands in vein
Couple of the feds say I'm insane
A psych said.....
And then his son told me put down the drink dawg
I got a...
I guess... finna chop it's head off
I need a little something to knock the edge off
Aside from this song, life sucks
....
....modest
And every good god needs a goddess
And every good star couldn't guide us
It falls upon something that's inside us
So I.... with my riders
...Riders
...
[Hook]
I don't like them, they don't like that
They don't like that, I don't want that
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again
Don't worry about me, worry about you
Worry about something, don't worry what I do
Hating motherfuckers, it'll be a long time
Before you ever see me again, me again
[Verse 2]
See I need some time to 
meditate
Naw bitch I'm fly I need time to levitate
And I don't sound....trying to hesitate
....
like nigga, you a featherweight
And I'm a heavyweight
 and I'm very great
I put in every date, rocking in every state
Do not debate, you cannot cape
I must...
Guess its my fate, guess it was written
I can... guess it was different
...back then I was different
Now I'm spitting and 
everybody's just spitting
And what it sound like when everybody sound like
What you sound like, bumpin' 'em on a round mic
I don't need...
Feel like...
And these niggas are secondary like Pippen around Mike
Trippin' around sight, something on that down light
I'mma be down, right, when you niggas is downright biters
...
And my shit downright fire, from the corner buyer
[Hook]
Don't worry 'bout me, don't worry 'bout them, don't worry 'bout you, and what you gonna do
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again
Don't worry 'bout me, don't worry 'bout me, don't worry 'bout you and baby I do
Don't worry bout something else we can't do
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
Don't worry 'bout me, don't worry 'bout you, and worry 'bout something else we can't do...
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
Don't worry 'bout me, and it'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
Again, again
Before you ever see me again, me again
It'll be a long time before you ever see me again
[Bridge]
Can you clap your hands, hands
Clap your, clap your hands, hands
Clap your, clap your hands, hands
And I'm gonna show you what I'm gonna do again
Can you clap your hands, hands
Need you to clap your hands, hands (x7)
[Verse 3]
So the song like a 
Section 8
So I pass that dick around like the collection plate
I can sell 'em on Sunday 
...
with the...
I be stunting with the stunnas, and that's the best you make
So if everybody is sad now, and shit don't pan out
Throw your hands up, at least give them a handout
....this song is like Jerome is
....on the cellphone days, I'm homeless
Or feeling like Ike at the end of the movie
When you wait another two shows just to get to me
Or feeling like Eddie Kane, I still got it
And something(?) but the problem is, you still not it
Or maybe if it's sicker, they say I'm "that nigga"
Or maybe I'm...
Or maybe damn, I could...my shit...
Maybe I should stop being real, maybe I should get on Twitter
Maybe I should...I could reconsider
...
And I'mma drink until I can't stand and got no liver
I can stand and deliver 'til the...
And I'mma spit it, like it get it, gonna die by the...
I'd rather live by what I live by, then die when I'm fine
I'm gonna stand by my self 'til my very last breath
Cause you know what? A coward dies a thousand deaths
And I'm proud...
And I could style on...to hell with this
You can't style on me, nigga I'm...
I'm liable to be a liability...
You plan to style on me, trying to style on me
Nigga, I'm liable to be a liability, and my ability
I can sound like...
...
[Hook 2]
Don't worry about me, worry about you
Worry about something, something will do
And motherfuckers, it'll be a long time
Before you ever see me again
So don't worry about me, I'll be fine
I'll be up for some, going for mine
And it'll be a long time before
You ever see me again, me again
Don't worry 'bout me, worry 'bout you, worry 'bout you
'fore you ever see me
[Verse 4]
Don't worry about what I been up to
When the fuck I'm going hard, nigga fuck you
Who the fuck is going, I can...
Who the fucks asking? I'll put the summer on blast and
Who the fucks lasting?
And be the last standing
Caught up on the...
Get a better tan and
I been feeling dandy
And who can run the planet? Pass them a 
Xanax
In afternoon...
And all of the damage...
Left on the...
Who...after all, I guess it's a small world after all
Stunting on the sun, cus I have to ball
I run the world cause 
it's a small world after all
And I'm never after y'all
I have to loss somethin' 'fore I got it all
And you feeling like you got it all?
...
Nah nigga, not at all
[Hook]
Don't worry bout me, just worry bout you
And what'chya gon' do?
It'll be a long time, before you ever see me again
[Verse 5]
... on the all out, ...all out
Last summer, last fight, and y'all had a fall out
I can sense...what y'all 'bout?
Bumping... and everything that y'all 'bout
Y'all had your ups and downs, you don't fuck around
Put everything on the...then you go and fuck around
Bet you felt something, now you feel nothing now
Y'all feelings felt something, ya'll don't feel nothing now
Her tears dried up, went to see a specialist
I was under...and learning what the lesson is
What the ebony of essences, the Genesis
I got the fetishes, something...
...and you had to look at innocence
I wish we just could take it back to the Book of Genesis
Before the hook is in is there any point of any of this?
...
...
....put hands on you, then put his front side and put hands on you
Just turn around say for really? I'm done motherfucker
I got enough to...
[Hook]
Worry bout me, just worry bout you, I can... when I be good
And she said now
It'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
Don't worry 'bout me, just worry 'bout you
And I'll be up now, what I been up to
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
Don't worry 'bout me, don't worry 'bout them
And it'll be a long time before you ever see me again, me again
Me again, me again, and it'll be a long time before you ever see me again



DONDA CREATIVE DIRECTOR – VIRGIL ABLOH
 PROJECT CREATIVE DIRECTOR AND GRAPHIC DESIGN – JOE PEREZ ASSITANT GRAPHIC DESIGN - GEO PHOTOGRAPHY – FA BIEN MONTIQUE 
CREATIVE DIRECTOR OF GOOD MUSIC – MATTHEW WILLIAMS
 
DONDA ART DIRECTOR – JUSTIN SAUNDERS
 COVER CONCEPT: JESSE KANDA MARKETING & CREATIVE DIRECTION FOR PUSHA T: CAPRICORN CLARKE ART & PHOTOGRAPHY PRODUCTION: KRISTEN YIENGST AND TAI LINZIE PACKAGE PRODUCTION: ANDY PROCTOR LEGAL COUNSEL: THEO SEDLMAYR, LISA DONINI AND CHARLIE SCOTT FOR SEDLMAYR & ASSOCIATES, P.C. CLEARANCES: ERIC WEISSMAN MUSIC LICENSING INC. BUSINESS AFFAIRS: NICOLE WYSKOARKO, IAN ALLEN, ANTOINETTE TROTMAN, VOL S. DAVIS, III ℗&© 2013 GETTING OUT OUR DREAMS INC THE ISLAND DEF JAM MUSIC GROUP A DIVISION OF UMG RECORDINGS INC 1755 BROADWAY NEW YORK NEW YORK 10019 DISTRIBUTED BY UNIVERSAL MUSIC DISTRIBUTION ALL RIGHTS RESERVED B0018704-02 WWW.PUSHA-T.COM WWW.DEFJAM.COM


[Brisco]
I'm from the cocaine era, packs in my stroller
Two beepers and a flip, startech Motorola
Bally silts,
 
Kangol tilts
Stand straight when the boss talkin, hush yo lips
My affiliates contract hits
I let the street declare war when you want that beef
Talk cheap, get money, I was taught to ride
Loyalty came first and we don't switch no sides
I'ma savage on the block, nickel rocks and heroin hopes
I walked the ghetto like them but I was takin' my notes
Certified goon, the locks on standby
I just need a couple real niggas I can stand by (C.M.B.)
A bad bitch with hips
 and two niggas on the interstate takin' them trips
I'm into carrots like Bugs Bunny
, 
Young Brisco, the New Cash Money
[Lil Wayne]
Reportin' live from the booth
I'm killin' these bitches, Young Wayne Carruth
Untamed and loose, plus drank and juice
I was once a spark, into a flame it grew
I don't complain to you, don't complain to me
Everbody got beef and I just came to eat
I'm in the game for keeps, if you in my lane I beep
I been runnin this shit and I ain't neva sprained my knee
And guess who came home, Ronnie the O.G
He still on paper, nigga we neva free
And for my homie Streets, I'mma twist one up
He can't even hit the kush he gotta piss in the cup
What is this on my wrist, shit is sicker than uggh
Yo Brisco, there ain't a sky bigger than us
What's good, I'm in diamonds is you tippin' or what
I took your bitch and she ain't comin' back to work for a month, Weezy
[Brisco]
I'm in the all-red slide spur, sittin' on Asanti's
With a bad redbone that look somethin' like Ashanti
[Lil Wayne]
Ok light brown, sorta tan medina
With a, light brown thick thing like Trina
You prolly seen us rippin' the streets up with no top between us
[Brisco]
You're so genius, that's my word you know I got you twin
You a real nigga dog, thanks for lettin' me in
[Lil Wayne]
Yea, we in the game now and I'm bettin' we win
And I'm the rapper landlord just collectin' my rent
[Brisco]
I put the house on Lil' Bris, he gonna eat this year
Stop for the real niggas who ain't see this year
[Lil Wayne]
Open your eyes, open your eyes Cash Money has a new face
And we go tie the shit up like a shoelace
[Brisco]
And that's me the young hood messiah, '07 I'mma set the fuckin' hood on fire


[Produced By Kanye West, Ken Lewis, Mike Dean & RZA]
[Intro: Kanye West]
Me and the RZA connect
Yeah, me and the RZA connect
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
And I’ll never let my son have an ego
He’ll be nice to everyone, wherever we go
I mean I might even make him be Republican
So everybody know he love white people
And I’ll never let him leave his college girlfriend
And get caught up with the groupies in the whirlwind
And I’ll never let him ever hit the telethon
I mean even if people dyin’ and the world ends
See, I just want him to have an easy life
Not like Yeezy life, just want him to be someone people like
Don’t want him to be hated all the time, judged
Don’t be like your daddy that would never budge
And I’ll never let him ever hit a strip club
I learned the hard way, that ain’t the place to get love
And I’ll never let his mom move to LA
Knowin’ she couldn’t take the pressure now we all pray
[Break]
[Jay-Z]
Me and the RZA connect
Me and the RZA connect
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Sorry junior, I already ruined ya
Cause you ain’t even alive, paparazzi pursuin’ ya
Sins of a father make your life ten times harder
I just wanna take ya to a barber
Bondin’ on charters, all the shit that I never did
Teach ya good values so you cherish it
Took me 26 years to find my path
My only job is cut the time in half
So at 13 we’ll have our first drink together
Black bar mitzvahs, mazel tov, mogul talk
Look a man dead in his eyes so he know you talk truth
When you speak it, give your word, keep it
And if the day comes I only see him on the weekend
I just pray we was in love on the night that we conceived him
Promise to never leave him even if his mama tweakin’
Cause my dad left me and I promise never repeat him
Never repeat him, never repeat him


[JC] When your debut album,  
“The College Dropout”
 came out, the thing that people began to associate with you besides music was: 
Here’s someone who’s going to argue for his place in history
; like, “Why am I not getting five stars?”
[KW] I think you got to make your case. Seventh grade, I wanted to be on the basketball team. I didn’t get on the team, so that summer I practiced. I was on the summer league. My team won the championship; I was the point guard. And then when I went for eighth grade, I practiced and I hit every free throw, every layup, and the next day I looked on this chart, and my name wasn’t on it. I asked the coach what’s up, and they were like, “You’re just not on it.” I was like, “But I hit every shot.” The next year — I was on the junior team when I was a freshman, that’s how good I was. But I wasn’t on my eighth-grade team, because some coach — some Grammy, some reviewer, some fashion person, some blah blah blah — 
they’re all the same as that coach
. Where I didn’t feel that I had a position in eighth grade to scream and say, 
“Because I hit every one of my shots, I deserve to be on this team!”
 I’m letting it out on everybody who doesn’t want to give me my credit.
[JC] And you know you hit your shots.
[KW] Yeah — you put me on the team. So I’m going to use my platform to tell people that they’re not being fair. Anytime I’ve had a big thing that’s ever pierced and cut across the Internet, it was a fight for justice. Justice. And when you say justice, it doesn’t have to be war. Justice could just be clearing a path for people to dream properly. It could be clearing a path to make it fair within the arena that I play. You know, if Michael Jordan can scream at the refs, me as 
Kanye West, as the Michael Jordan
 of music, can go and say, “This is wrong.”
[JC] 
You’ve won a lot of Grammys.
[KW]
“[My Beautiful] Dark [Twisted] Fantasy” and “Watch the Throne”: neither was nominated for Album of the Year,
 
and I made both of those in one year.
 I 
don’t know if this is statistically right, but I’m assuming I have the most Grammys of anyone my age,
 
but I haven’t won one against a white person.
But the thing is, I don’t care about the Grammys; I just would like for the statistics to be more accurate.
[JC] You want the historical record to be right.
[KW] Yeah, I don’t want them to rewrite history right in front of us. At least, not on my clock. 
I really appreciate the moments that I was able to win rap album of the year or whatever
. But after a while, it’s like: “Wait a second; this isn’t fair. This is a setup.” 
I remember when both Gnarls Barkley and Justin [Timberlake] lost for Album of the Year,
 
and I looked at Justin, and I was like: “Do you want me to go onstage for you? You know, do you want me to fight”
 —
[JC] For you.
[KW] For what’s right. 
I am so credible and so influential and so relevant that I will change things
. So when the next little girl that wants to be, you know, a musician and give up her anonymity and her voice to express her talent and bring something special to the world, and it’s time for us to roll out and say, “Did this person have the biggest thing of the year?” — that thing is more fair because I was there.
[JC] 
But has that instinct led you astray? Like the Taylor Swift interruption at the MTV Video Music Awards, things like that.
[KW] It’s only led me to complete awesomeness at all times. 
It’s only led me to awesome truth and awesomeness.
 Beauty, truth, awesomeness. That’s all it is.
[JC] So no regrets?
[KW] 
I don’t have one regret.
[JC] Do you believe in the concept of regret?
[KW] If anyone’s reading this waiting for some type of full-on, flat apology for anything, they should just stop reading right now.
[JC] But that is something that you apologized for.
[KW] Yeah, 
I think that I have like, faltered, you know, as a human. My message isn’t perfectly defined. I have, as a human being, fallen to peer pressure.
...
[JC] That’s fascinating, to look at that record through that lens.
[KW] I don’t have some type of romantic relationship with the public. 
I’m like, the anti-celebrity, and my music comes from a place of being anti.
 That was the album where I gave people what they wanted. I don’t think that at that point, with my relationship with the public and with skeptical buyers, that I could’ve done 
“Black Skinhead”
 [from “Yeezus]
[JC] Does that make “Dark Fantasy” a dishonest album in some way?
[KW] It’s always going to be 80 percent, at least, what I want to give, and 20 percent fulfilling a perception. 
If you walk into an old man’s house, they’re not giving nothing.
 They’re at 100 percent exactly what they want to do. I would hear stories about Steve Jobs and feel like he was at 100 percent exactly what he wanted to do, but I’m sure 
even a Steve Jobs has compromised
. Even a Rick Owens has compromised. You know, even a Kanye West has compromised. Sometimes you don’t even know when you’re being compromised till after the fact, and that’s what you regret.
I don’t want to come off dissing “Dark Fantasy.” It’s me never being satisfied and then me coming and admitting and saying the truth. As much as I can air things out for other people, to air things out for myself, to say, “I feel like this could’ve been stronger.”
...
[JC] Even though you had always wanted to be out in front, was there ever a point where you valued your anonymity?
[KW] Yeah, I held on to the last moments of it. 
I knew when I wrote the line “light-skinned friend look like Michael Jackson” [from the song “Slow Jamz"] I was going to be a big star.
 At the time, they used to have the Virgin music [stores], and I would go there and just go up the escalator and say to myself, “I’m soaking in these last moments of anonymity.” I knew I was going to make it this far; I knew that this was going to happen.
[JC] But producting happened for you first, especially after Jay-Z used you so heavily on “The Blueprint.”
[KW] I used to have tracks that sounded like Timbaland; I had tracks that sounded like [DJ Premier]. But Jay-Z was an amazing communicator that made the soul sound extremely popular. And because I could make the soul sound in my sleep, it finally gave me a platform to put the message that my parents put inside of me and that 
Dead Prez
 helped to get out of me and 
Mos Def and [Talib] Kweli
, they helped to get out of me: I was able to put it, sloppily rap it, on top of the platform that Jay-Z had created for me.
Before, when I wanted to rap, my raps sounded like a bit like Cam’ron; they sounded a bit like Mase; they sounded a bit like Jay-Z or whoever. And it wasn’t until I hung out with Dead Prez and understood how to make, you know, raps with a message sound cool that I was able to just write “All Falls Down” in 15 minutes.
[JC] Is that true?
[KW] Yeah, that’s how I discovered my style. I was just hanging out with them all the time in New York. I would produce for them. You know, I was able to slip past everything with a pink polo, but I am Dead Prez. And now, because I was able to slip past, I have a responsibility at all times.
[JC] What were the things that you were trying to do on “Late Registration” that you either did not or could not yet do on “
Dropout
”?
[KW] 
I was trying to do different things with orchestras
. It was just a vibe that I was trying to get at, a sound I was trying to mix with hip-hop to try to see how far I could expand it. I guess that was a Chicago thing, like Quincy Jones.
[JC] But you came here, you worked with Jon Brion [the Fiona Apple producer].
[KW] 
I really liked the sound of some projects that Jon Brion had worked on.
 I was always considered this crazy hothead kid, but I would always just go and just really break bread with someone who I respected. I will completely bow to anybody I respect.
[JC] That era also includes what I find probably the most moving thing that you’ve ever done, which is 
calling out President Bush at the Hurricane Katrina telethon
. To me, that moment is actually the peak of putting a message in a pop format, even though it’s not a song.[Produced by Ben Bronfman, Che Pope, Sham Joseph, Noah Goldstein, Travis Scott, Mike Dean, and Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
My momma was raised in the era when
Clean water was only served to the fairer skin
Doin' clothes you would have thought I had help
But they wasn't satisfied unless I picked the cotton myself
You see it's broke nigga racism
That's that "Don't touch anything in the store"
And it's rich nigga racism
That's that "Come in, please buy more"
"What you want, a Bentley? Fur coat? A diamond chain?
All you blacks want all the same things"
Used to only be niggas, now everybody playin'
Spendin' everything on Alexander Wang
New Slaves
[Bridge]
You see there's leaders and there's followers
But I'd rather be a dick than a swallower
[Verse 2]
I throw these Maybach keys
I wear my heart on the sleeve
I know that we the new slaves
I see the blood on the leaves
I see the blood on the leaves
I see the blood on the leaves
I know that we the new slaves
I see the blood on the leaves
They throwin' hate at me
Want me to stay at ease
Fuck you and your corporation
Y'all niggas can't control me
I know that we the new slaves
I know that we the new slaves
I'm 'bout to wild the fuck out
I'm goin' Bobby Boucher
I know that pussy ain't free
You niggas pussy, ain't me
Y'all throwin' contracts at me
You know that niggas can't read
Throw 'em some Maybach keys
Fuck it,
 
c'est la vie
I know that we the new slaves
Y'all niggas can't fuck with me
Y'all niggas can't fuck with 'Ye
Y'all niggas can't fuck with 'Ye
I'll move my family out the country
So you can't see where I stay
So go and grab the reporters
So I can smash their recorders
See they'll confuse us with some bullshit
Like the New World Order
Meanwhile the DEA
Teamed up with the CCA
They tryna lock niggas up
They tryna make new slaves
See that's that privately owned prison
Get your piece today
They prolly all in the Hamptons
Braggin' 'bout what they made
Fuck you and your Hampton house
I'll fuck your Hampton spouse
Came on her Hampton blouse
And in her Hampton mouth
Y'all 'bout to turn shit up
I'm 'bout to tear shit down
I'm 'bout to air shit out
Now what the fuck they gon' say now?
[Outro: Kanye West & Frank Ocean]
I won't end this high, not this time again
So long, so long, so long,
 
you cannot survive
And I'm not dyin', and I can't lose
I can't lose, no, I can't lose
Cause I can't leave it to you
So let's get too high, get too high again
(Too high again, too high)
[Kóbor János]
Egyszer a Nap úgy elfáradt
Elaludt mély zöld tó ölén
Az embereknek fájt a sötét
Ő megsajnált, eljött közénk



[KW] Yeah. I guess it’s a very pop moment of a lifetime or generation. I mean, my dad’s generation is a generation of messaging, you know? But that’s just a piece of me being the opinionated individual that I am.
[JC] Were you conscious that that’s what you were doing, or was it totally just instinct?
[KW] Yeah, it was pretty bugged out. When you think about it, 
I was wearing like, a Juicy Couture men’s polo shirt.
 We weren’t there, like, ready for war.
...
[JC] 
You look at Jay or Diddy, and I’d say like, 90 percent of the time, you think they’re having a good time
. 
With you, I would say, I don’t know, 50-50 maybe? Or 30-70?
[KW] 
Maybe 90 percent of the time it looks like I’m not having a good time.
[JC] But you’re in a very public relationship, a seemingly long and satisfying relationship: you’re about to have a child.
[KW] Any woman that you’re in love with or that loves you is going to command a certain amount of, you know, energy. It’s actually easier to focus, in some ways.
[JC] When you’re uncertain about love, it can be such a distraction. It infects all the other areas.
[KW] Yeah, that’s what I mean when I say like, “Yo, I’m going to be super Zenned out like, five years from now.” 
I’m the type of rock star that likes to have a girlfriend, you know?
 I’m the type of soul that likes to be in love and likes to be able to focus. And that inspires me.
[JC] 
On “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” there’s a really affectionate scene where you go and help Kim sort through her clothes.
[KW] That was from a place of love. It’s hard when people read things in a lot of different ways. You know, the amount of backlash I got from it is when I decided to not be on the show anymore. And it’s not that I have an issue with the show; I just have an issue with the amount of backlash that I get. Because I just see like, an amazing person that I’m in love with that I want to help.
...
[JC] One of the things I thought when I heard the new record was, “This is the anti-'College Dropout.’ ” It feels like you’re shedding skin. Back then, you were like: “I want more sounds. I want more complicated raps. I want all the things.” At what point did that change?
[KW] Architecture — you know, this one 
Corbusier
 lamp was like, my greatest inspiration. I lived in Paris in this loft space and recorded in my living room, and it just had the worst acoustics possible, but also the songs had to be super simple, because if you turned up some complicated sound and a track with too much bass, it’s not going to work in that space. This is earlier this year. I would go to museums and just like, the Louvre would have a furniture exhibit, and I visited it like, five times, even privately. And I would go see actual Corbusier homes in real life and just talk about, you know, why did they design it? They did like, the biggest glass panes that had ever been done. Like I say, I’m a minimalist in a rapper’s body. It’s cool to bring all those vibes and then eventually come back to Rick [Rubin], because I would always think about Def Jam.
[JC] 
His records did used to say “reduced by Rick Rubin.”
[KW] For him, it’s really just inside of him. I’m still just a kid learning about minimalism, and he’s a master of it. It’s just really such a blessing, to be able to work with him. I want to say that after working with Rick, it humbled me to realize why I hadn’t — even though I produced “Watch the Throne”; even though I produced “Dark Fantasy” — 
why I hadn’t won Album of the Year yet
.
This album is moments that I haven’t done before, like just my voice and drums. What people call a rant — but put it next to just a drumbeat, and it cuts to the level of, like, Run-D.M.C. or KRS-One. The last record I can remember — and I’m going to name records that you’ll think are cheesy — but like, 
J-Kwon, “Tipsy.” People would think that’s like a lower-quality, less intellectual form of hip-hop, but that’s always my No. 1.
 There’s no opera sounds on this new album, you know what I mean? It’s just like, super low-bit. I’m still, like, slightly a snob, but I completely removed my snob heaven songs; I just removed them altogether.


[Hook: Queen Latifah]
I'm gonna blow your mind, hold you close
Squeeze you tight, the next time that I see you
I'm gonna tell you I love you, cross my heart
And I hope I die
The next time that I see you
[Verse 1: Common]
I grew up, talking Chi-town slang
Never played soccer but loved to kick game
Loved chicks with thick frames
And big-lipped dames
Might see 'em on my arm
Cause I charm like thick chains
I was at the Knicks game, they were playing the Nets
Courtside so I could hear the shit they say to the refs
Thugs, this type of stuff you can't express in a text
See the section of girls who be dressing for checks
That's when she stepped in front of me
Light-skinned, long hair like a school days wannabe
A big 'ol (whoo) let's just say she was blessed
She had got it from her mama, God gave her the rest
We was being introduced by mutual friends
Like Kobe in the 4th, that's when the game begins
Game begins, games begins
I'm from the windy city, so I play to win
[Hook: Queen Latifah]
[Verse 2: Common]
We conversated tough about life and stuff
Told her, tonight was just right for us
She was, flavor most and I can spice it up
Be my black Victoria Beckham once I wife it up
Asked when the next time we could speak
I might Khloe you, marry you in 3 weeks
Seen cheeks, she was like 'she don't remember my name'
That's when I realized ain't no gender in game
I thought, like "Man! You don't know me?"
I'm the black guy in the flick with Angelina Jolie
Boldly, she told me 'Oh you got moves'
Her friends said 'No, really though, he's a good dude'
After couple months of dating and pairs of good shoes
Being snapped by the papps, we shared the good news
We were engaged, though many was confused
I'm from the windy city, so I will not lose...come on
[Hook: Queen Latifah]
[Verse 3: Common]
She had a dope figure, y'all can go figure
Should of listened to 'Ye, cause she was a gold digger
I ain't a dumb nigga, she was able to pull it
Love happy, blindsided like Sandra Bullock
Or could it be, things go the way that they should
From the, unexpected, love could be understood
And in the real game, only love can win
I got to win, cause I fell in love with her friend
[Hook: Queen Latifah]


[Produced by Anthony Kilhoffer, Hit-Boy, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Intro: Blades of Glory sample]

[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
So I ball so hard mothafuckas wanna fine me
First niggas gotta find me
What's 50 grand to a mothafucka like me
Can you please remind me?
 
(Ball so hard)
This shit crazy y'all don't know that don't shit faze me
The Nets could go 0 for 82 and I'd look at you like this shit gravy
(Ball so hard) This shit weird, we ain't even s'posed to be here
(Ball so hard)
 
Since we here it's only right that we'd be fair
Psycho: I'm liable to go Michael, take your pick
Jackson, Tyson, Jordan, Game 6
(Ball so hard) Got a broken clock, Rolleys that don't tick tock
Audemars that's losing time,
 
hidden behind all these big rocks
(Ball so hard) I'm shocked too, I'm supposed to be locked up too
If you escaped what I've escaped
You'd be in Paris getting fucked up too
(Ball so hard) Let’s get faded,
 
Le Meurice for like 6 days
Gold bottles,
 
scold models,
 
spillin’ Ace on my sick J’s
(Ball so hard) Bitch, behave,
 
just might let you meet 'Ye
Chi town's D. Rose, I’m moving the Nets to BK
[Hook]
Ball so hard mothafuckas want to fine me
(That shit cray, that shit cray, that shit cray)
[Verse 2: Kanye]
She said, "'Ye, can we get married at the mall?"
I said, "Look, you need to crawl 'fore you ball
Come and meet me in the bathroom stall
And show me why you deserve to have it all."
(Ball so hard) That shit cray, ain’t it Jay?
What she order, fish filet?
"Your whip so cold" – this old thing?
Act like you’ll ever be around mothafuckas like this again
Bougie girl, grab my hand, fuck that bitch she don’t wanna dance
Excuse my French but I’m in France, I’m just sayin'
Prince Williams ain’t do it right if you ask me
Cause I was him, I would have married Kate and Ashley
What’s Gucci, my nigga? What’s Louis, my killa?
What’s drugs, my dealer?
 
What’s that jacket, Margiela?
Doctors say I’m the illest, cause I’m suffering from realness
Got my niggas in Paris and they going gorillas, huh
[Interlude]
[Hook]
[Outro: Kanye]
You are now watching the throne,
 
don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone, don't let me get in my zone
These other niggas is lyin,
 
actin’ like the summer ain’t mine
(I got that hot bitch in my home)
You know how many hot bitches I own?
Don't let me get in my zone, don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone, don't let me get in my zone
The stars is in the building,
 
they hands is to the ceiling
I know I’m 'bout to kill it, how you know? I got that feeling
You are now watching the throne,
 
don't let me into my zone
Don't let me into my zone (I’m definitely in my zone)


[Intro: Blades of Glory sample]
*We're going to skate to one song...one song only*
[Verse 1: T.I.]
Aye man I don't know what been happening
I guess y'all must have caught amnesia in my absence
I ain't been gone that long, have I?
Well, just for y'all reminder
How about 
the crown meet the throne
 right here
Let's get it
Call me T.I. -- no CPR, I'm killing shit
Even in prison I'm still the shit
Better recognize King in the building bitch
Act like you know you serious, 
I (ball so hard)
My ankle hurt
, 
don't buy a car if I ain't the first
In the country with a 1, 2, 3 bitch
You watch me while 
I painted her
, I (Ball so hard)
They hate to see me on the stage Jay-Z, Kanye with me
You know I (ball so hard), TIP is scary
Merci beaucoup in Paris
Parlez vous francais I say, Menage a trois today I say
I (ball so hard), hard out the park
Maybach chauffeured, I ain't got to park
So Ross
, so official dawg
Them lame can't do nothing with you dawg
She all on me, better get your broad
Don't like that, blow your whistle dawg
, I (ball so hard)
No referee throw no flag, ain't no techs for me
I keep them suckas upset with me, them racks back on deck you best believe that I
[Hook]
Ball so hard mothafuckas want to fine me
(That shit cray, that shit cray, that shit cray)
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
So I ball so hard mothafuckas want to fine me, first niggas got to find me
What's 50 grand to a mothafucka like me, can you please remind me?
(Ball so hard) This shit crazy, y'all don't know that don't shit phase me
The Nets could go 0 for 82 and I look at you like this shit gravy
(Ball so hard) This shit weird, we ain't even supposed to be here
(Ball so hard) Since we here, it's only right that we'd be fair
Psycho: I'm liable to go Michael, take your pick
Jackson, Tyson, Jordan, Game 6
(Ball so hard) Got a broke clock, Rolleys that don't tick tock
Audemars that's losing time, hidden behind all these big rocks
(Ball so hard) I'm shocked too, I'm supposed to be locked up too
If you escape what I've escaped, you'd be in Paris getting fucked up too
(Ball so hard) Let’s get faded, Le Meurice for like 6 days
Gold bottles, scold models, spillin’ Ace on my sick J’s
(Ball so hard) Bitch behave, just might let you meet 'Ye
Chi town's D. Rose, I’m moving the Nets to BK
[Hook]
Ball so hard mothafuckas want to fine me
(That shit cray, that shit cray, that shit cray)
[Verse 3: Kanye]
She said, "'Ye can we get married at the mall?"
I said, "Look, you need to crawl 'fore you ball
Come and meet me in the bathroom stall
And show me why you deserve to have it all"
(Ball so hard) That shit cray, ain’t it Jay? What she order, fish filet?
(Ball so hard) "Your whip so cold!" This old thing?
Act like you’ll ever be around mothafuckas like this again
Bougie girl, grab her hand, fuck that bitch she don’t wanna dance
Excuse my French but I’m in France, I’m just sayin'
Prince William ain’t do it right if you ask me
Cause if I was him I would have married Kate and Ashley
What’s Gucci, my nigga? What’s Louis, my killa?
What’s drugs, my deala? What’s that jacket, Margiela?
Doctors say I’m the illest, cause I’m suffering from realness
Got my niggas in Paris and they going gorillas, huh!
[Interlude]
I don't even know what that means
(No one knows what it means, but it's provocative)
No it's not, it's gross
(Gets the people going!)
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Kanye]
You are now watching the throne, don't let me get in my zone
Don't let me get in my zone, don't let me get in my zone
These other niggas is lyin, actin’ like the summer ain’t mine
(I got that hot bitch in my home) You know how many hot bitches I own?
Don't let me in my zone, don't let me in my zone
Don't let me in my zone, don't let me in my zone
The stars is in the building, they hands is to the ceiling
I know I’m 'bout to kill it, how you know? I got that feeling
You are now watching the throne, don't let me into my zone
Don't let me in my zone (I’m definitely in my zone)


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Chief Keef (Kanye West)]
(it's the....I got, I can't get down to..)
I don't feel nobody
I can't hear nobody
(Don't stop loving)
I can't see nobody


[Produced By: 88 Keys, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Hook: Frank Ocean]
Human beings in a mob
What's a mob to a king? What's a king to a God?
What's a God to a non-believer who don't believe in anything?
Will he make it out alive? Alright, alright, no church in the wild
[Verse 1: Jay Z]
Tears on the mausoleum floor
Blood stains the Colosseum doors
Lies on the lips of a priest
Thanksgiving disguised as a feast
Rolling in the Rolls Royce Corniche
Only the doctors got this, I’m hiding from police
Cocaine seats, all white like I got the whole thing bleached
Drug dealer chic,
 
I’m wondering if a thug’s prayers reach
Is Pious pious cause God loves pious?
Socrates asked whose bias do y'all seek?
All for Plato, screech
I’m out here balling, I know y'all hear my sneaks
Jesus was a carpenter, Yeezy he laid beats
Hova flow the Holy Ghost, get the hell up out your seats, preach
[Hook]
[Bridge: The-Dream]
I live by you, desire
I stand by you, walk through the fire
Your love is my scripture
Let me into your encryption
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Coke on her black skin
Made a stripe like a zebra, I call that jungle fever
You will not control the threesome
Just roll the weed up until I get me some
We formed a new religion
No sins as long as there’s permission
And deception is the only felony
To never fuck nobody without telling me
Sunglasses and Advil, last night was mad real
Sun coming up, 5 a.m., I wonder if they got cabs still?
Thinking 'bout the girl in all leopard
Who was rubbing the wood like Kiki Shepherd
Two tattoos: one read "No Apologies"
The other said "Love is Cursed by Monogamy"
It’s something that the pastor don’t preach
It’s something that a teacher can’t teach
When we die the money we can’t keep
But we probably spend it all cause the pain ain’t cheap: preach
[Hook]


[Intro: Kanye West]
Long Beach, stand up! (Plain Pat, what up?)
It's your hometown boy Mark Spitz and uh
Now I've been getting fucked up all night long
This weed and this drink I got is almost gone
And I've been doin' wrong my whole life long
So here's my song
Here's my song
[Hook: Mark Spitz with (Kanye West)]
Five pounds of dro
Five rounds or mo'
Tore from the flo'
Two sets of hoes
K. West to go
(Okay no more for me
Okay one more for me)
[X2]
[Verse 1: Mark Spitz]
Let me talk on this
Let me walk on this
Mark Spitz extra clips of hollow tips
I'm full throttle with Chicago trips
Hit's model chicks without the 
bread
Moet bottles flip
, 
I'm out my head
Yeah
Okay no more for me
One more for me
Send another round around for all my Gs
Quarterback in the streets
Throw a zip for three
Mr. MC on the beats that still spin when I freeze
In the city by the sea
Feel the breeze
Hot head, I got steel to squeeze
See easy
The west is on my back, K. West is on the track
Okay?
Now we fiend to get it jumpin' like the jacks
Dimes and hood rats, get down on the flo'
And pop that pussy till it's time to go
[Hook: Mark Spitz with (Kanye West)]
[Verse 2: Mark Spitz]
I came to the club with a gang of drugs
But I left from the club with a gang of bitches
Just got my pimp cup now my name is Bishop
In a money green suit, ice cane and lizards
The P chain still hangs but it's changed to Spitz
The blues always authentic gangsta shit
Now take this and run with it
Go have fun with it
But make sure you bring it back when you're done with it
Long Beach done don' it again
It's been ten
And we've been it since then as little kids
You niggas can't tell me shit on how to sell with this
I'm hot as hell, we don' it again
The west is on my back, K. West is on the track
Okay?
Now we fiend to get it jumpin' like the jacks
Dimes and hood rats, get down on the flo'
And pop that pussy till it's time to go
[Hook: Mark Spitz with (Kanye West)]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
You at the bar tryin' to ask what that Hypno hit fo'
If you gotta ask that you can't afford to get mo'
Dawg, slow down you can't afford to sip Mo'
Leave the club now, come back when you get dough
Many hoes, many many many many hoes
Centerfolds, especially I'm in the Go
Cadillac back to back, red, black to indigo
Tell me that ain't pimpin' yo
Especially they in a row?
Keep a least two, that can't keep they cool
Cause I stay G'd up like the first week of school
Broke girls, I take 'em to they Section 8
Where I pass the dick around like a collection plate
White girls said, "La Di Da Di, we love to party"
And that bitch ain't broke so they means she sniff coke
And she only 17 so that mean she can't vote
So if you do anything that mean you can't quote
[Hook: Mark Spitz with (Kanye West)]


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
People keep talking
They can say what they like
I don't worry cause
Everything's gonna be alright
No one but I'm nombre uno
Hey hombre I'm "Ye" so you too low
Money felt like sumo's so haters just gonna sue mo'
What you think gonna happen when they see me in that two do'
She gonna be with you she gonna see me she read' to go
Cause you have re-freshened me I'm fresh head to toe
So let's go let's get let's get it hey
I know you need something different trying to get away
I use that as a 
segue
Let's hit a spot where they only speak Reggae
Like no one can do it this long
She said "aye Kan, who you tryin' to be, Akon?"
Sorry the drink had me wildin' a little bit
But my link had me stylin' a little bit
I think I'm gonna hit the island in a bit
But what I said had you smiling didn't it
She laughed at this
But after this
You know I gotta take that off
Young Halle told me "make me feel good"
So I gave her the Monster Balls
[Verse 2: Alicia Keys]
I just want you close
Where you can stay forever
You can be sure
That it will only get better
[Bridge: Alicia Keys]
You and me together
Through the days and nights
I don't worry cause
Everything's gonna be alright
People keep talking
They can say what they like
But all I know is everything's gonna be alright
[Hook: Alicia Keys]
No one no one no one
Can get in the way of what I'm feeling
No one no one no one
Can get in the way of what I feel for you
You you
Can get in the way of what I feel for you
[Verse 3: Alicia Keys]
When the rain is pouring down
And my heart is hurting
You will always be around
This I know for certain
[Bridge]
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Alicia Keys]
I know some people search the world
To find something like what we have
I know people will try
Try to divide
Something so real
So till the end of time
I'm telling you that
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West and Nottz]
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
20 plus years of selling Johnson & Johnson
I started out as a baby face monster
No wonder there's diaper rash on my conscience
My teething ring was numbed by the nonsense
Gem Star razor and a dinner plate
Arm and hammer and a mason jar, that's my dinner date
Then crack the window in the kitchen, let it ventilate
Cause I let it sizzle on the stove like a minute steak
Nigga, I was crack in the school zone
Two beepers on me, Starter jacket that was two toned
Four lockers, four different bitches got their mule on
Black Ferris Bueller, cutting school with his jewels on
Couldn't do wrong with a chest full of chains and a arm full of watches
What I sell for pain in the hood, I'm a doctor
Zhivago tried to fight the urge like Ivan Drago, if he dies he dies
Like Doughboy to Tre, if he rides he rides
Throwing punches in his room, if he cries he cries
We don't drink away the pain, when a nigga die
We add a link to the chain, inscribe a nigga name in your flesh
We playing on a higher game of chess
Once you delegate his bills who gon' fuck his bitch the best?
A million megapixels of the Pyrex
Started on the scale digital, my only Timex
Nigga, this is timeless, simply cause it's honest
Pure as the fumes that be fucking with my sinus
Nigga this is Simon says, Simon red
Blood on your diamonds 'til you dying – dead,
 
yuugh!
[Samples]
"You better change what comes out your speaker"
"Dee-dee-dee, dah-dee, dah-dee, dee-dee, dah-dee, day-ah" (What is it?)
[Verse 2: Kendrick Lamar]
You wanna see a dead body?
Instrumentals from my momma's Christmas party
Troubles on my mind
I still smell crime,
 
my little brother crying
Smokers repeatedly buying my Sega Genesis either that
Or my auntie was stealing it,
 
hit the pipe and start feeling it
Oh wee, cut me some slack, weed never did that
This was different, geez, Louise please help me relax
Quantum physics could never show you the world I was in
When I was ten, back when nine ounces had got you ten
And nine times out of ten, niggas don't pay attention
And when there's tension in the air nines come with extensions
My daddy turned a quarter piece to a four and a half
Took a L, started selling soap fiends bubble bath
Broke his nails misusing his pinky to treat his nose
Shirt buttoned open,
 
taco meat laying on his gold
I said "Daddy, one day I'mma get you right with 36 zips
1000 grams of cocaine then your name will be rich
Now you can rock it up or sell it soft as leather interior
Drop some ice cubes in it, Deebo on perimeter"
He said "Son, how come you think you be my connect?"
I said "Pops, your ass is washed up with all due respect"
He said "Well nigga, then show me how it all makes sense"
Go figure, mothafucka, every verse is a brick, your son dope, nigga
Now reap what you sowed, nigga (Please reap what you sowed, nigga)
I was born in '87, my grand daddy a legend
Now the same shit that y'all was smoking is my profession,
 
let's get it
[Samples]
"You better change what comes out your speaker"
"They must be on the dick of who?"


[Hook]
Not enough time in one lifetime
To love you like you deserve
Not enough time in one lifetime
To love you like you deserve
[Verse 1]
Not a minute more
Not a second more
Not infinite though
Watchu waitin for?
Never nah, no, say
Takin off time
Takin off day
Whatchu fightin for?
When yo booty flow
Who that known it though
Whatchu waitin for?
If you runnin from love
You love her like that
You runnin' from nuns
She running right back
Because it's
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
And I'm on a road
And I'm backin? No
To love you no more
To look back and forth
Till you got it from the
You got it what what
Baba ba ba baa
One a 44
Till I'm on the road
Till you (?) know
I know we would know
Till a (?)
I'm backin' on up
I'm makin mine
Till I cannot stop in the night
[Bridge]
Oh oh yeah
Oh yeah
Throw your hands up
Uh, (?) throw your hands up
And keep em up now
And keep em up high
No no no
Baby no
And we ain't goin' down baby
Oh no no
No, we ain't goin' down
You gotta keep em up high, high
And we ain't going down baby
[Verse 3]
Walla boom mena
I've been on that money
Days of the (?)
Money done side
Paper lined up all fallin'
And they linin club poppin'
And they down to throw
I'm just zonin'
Eh... nah
Actin' like purple salt
I've been on that rhyme till I get it now
Puffin up
Making money
Grindin paper
Make it witch you


[Intro: Linkin Park & Jay-Z]
Yeah, 
Thank you thank you thank you, you're far too kind!
Whoo! Aha, uh, whoo, yeah! ready? whoo!
Whoo, Whoo
[Hook: Jay-Z & Chester Bennington]
Now can I get an encore, do you want more
Cookin raw with the Brooklyn boy
So for one last time I need y'all to roar
Uh uh uh uh
Now what the hell are you waitin forrrr!!!
After me, there shall be no more
So for one last time, nigga make some noise
(Get 'em Jay)
[Verse One]
Who you know fresher than Hov'? Riddle me that
The rest of y'all know where I'm lyrically at
Can't none of y'all mirror me back
Yeah hearin me rap is like hearin G. Rap in his prime
I'm, young H.O., rap's Grateful Dead
'Bout to take over the globe, now break bread
I'm in, Boeing jets, Global Express
Out the country but the blueberry still connect
On the low but the yacht got a triple deck
But when you Young, what the -- you expect? Yep, yep
Grand openin, grand closin
God your man Hov' cracked the can open again
Who you gon' find doper than him with no pen
Just draw off inspiration
Soon you gon' see you can't replace him
With cheap imitations for THESE GENERATIONS!
[Hook]
[Verse Two]
Look what you made me do, look what I made for you
Knew if I paid my dues, how will they pay you
When you first come in the game, they try to play you
Then you drop a couple of hits, look how they wave to you
From Marcy to Madison Square
To the only thing that matters in just a matter of years (yea)
As fate would have it, Jay's status appears
To be at an all-time high, perfect time to say goodbye
When I come back like Jordan, wearin the 4-5
It ain't to play games witchu
It's to aim at you, probably maim you
If I owe you I'm blowin you to smithereens
Cocksucker take one for your team
And I need you to remember one thing (one thing)
I came, I saw, I conquered
From record sales, to sold out concerts
So muh-- if you want this encore
I need you to scream, 'til your lungs get sore
[Verse 3]
Tired of being what you want me to be
Feeling so faithless, lost under the surface
Don't know what you're expecting of me
Put under the pressure, of walking in your shoes
Caught in the undertoe, just caught in the undertoe
Every step that I take is another mistake to you
Caught in the undertoe, just caught in the undertoe
And every second I waste is more than I can taaaakkee!!
[Hook 2]
I've become so numb
I can't feel you there
Become so tired, so much more aware
I'm becoming this, all I want to do
Is be more like me and be less like you
I've, become so nuuuuummmbbb!
(Can I get a encore? Do you want more, more, more, more)
I've, become so nuuuummmmbb!
(So for one last time I need y'all to roar!
One last time I need y'all to roar!)


[Produced by Boogz N Tapez, Kanye West, and Anthony Kilhoffer]
[Hook]
Shake that body, party that bod
Shake that body, party that bod
Shake that body, party that body
Come and have a good time with G.O.D
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
I believe there's a God above me
I'm just the God of everything else
I put holes in everything else
"New God Flow," fuck everything else
Supreme dope dealer,
 
write it in bold letters
They love a nigga's spirit like Pac at the Coachella
They said Pusha ain't fit with the umbrella
But I was good with the Yay as a wholesaler
I think it’s good that 'Ye got a blow dealer
A hot temper, matched with a cold killer
I came aboard for more than just to rhyme with him
Think ’99, when Puff woulda had Shyne with him
 
(Yuugh!)
(Matching Daytonas, rose gold on us)
Goin' H·A·M in Ibiza done took a toll on us
(But since you over do it, I’mma pour more)
Well if you goin' coupe, I’m goin' four door
[Hook x2]
[Verse 2: Pusha T]
Step on they necks 'til they can’t breathe
Claim they five stars but sell you dreams
They say death multiplies by threes
Line them all up and let's just see
Fuck em 'Ye, fuck em 'Ye!
I wouldn't piss on that nigga with Grand Marnier
(Woo!) They still shoppin' at Targét
(Woo!) My shit is luxury Balmain (Ay!)
I'm balling, Amar'e
A nick sold in the park then I want in
What's a king without a crown, nigga?
What's a circus without you clown niggas?
What's a brick from an outta-town nigga
When you flood and you can drown niggas?
Here's the G.O.O.D. Music golden child
M.A. dollar sign, can't nobody hold me down
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Hold up, I ain't trying to stunt, man
But these Yeezys jumped over the Jumpman
Went from most hated to the champion god flow
I guess that's a feeling only me and Lebron know
I'm living three dreams:
Biggie Smalls', Dr. King's, Rodney King's
Cause we can't get along, no resolution
Till we drown all these haters, rest in peace to Whitney Houston
Cars, money, girls and the clothes
Aww man, you sold your soul
Naww man, mad people was frontin'
Aww man, made something from nothing
Picture working so hard, and you can't cut through
That can mess up your whole life, like an uncle that touched you
What has the world come to, I'm from the 312
Where cops don't come through and dreams don't come true
Like there the god go in his Murcielago
From working McDonalds, barely paying the car note
He even got enough to get his mama a condo
Then they ran up and shot him right in front of his mom
40 killings in a weekend, 40 killings in a week
Man the summer too hot you can feel it in the street
Welcome to Sunday service if you hope to someday serve us
We got green in our eyes, just follow my Erick Sermon
Did Moses not part the water with the cane?
Did strippers not make an ark when I made it rain?
Did Yeezy not get signed by Hov and Dame?
And ran to Jacob and made the new Jesus chains?
In Jesus' name, let the choir say
"I'm on fire, ay," that's what Richard Pryor say
And we'll annihilate anybody that violate
Ask any dope boy you know, they admire 'Ye
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Ghostface]
Ya nigga, y'all had my, I had my Jesus piece since ‘94
I don’t know what I, I don’t know what you’re talkin’ bout
And my eagle — Still got it all in the bag, B
All I did was play possum
Yo, come on
Six hundred Cuban cigar in the big tub
Medallion on, Dove soap on the fresh cut
With soap suds on the Mac-11
My big lion haven’t ate since twelve, and it’s after seven
We feed the nigga like forty chickens
His tail wag when I send him a bag with just one victim
Uh-huh, now let me show you what my closet on
Gems in the display case, call it a rock-a-thon
I got soccer moms paying for cock
Asians get it from behind while they cleanin’ their wok
Coming with flows that's toxic
Deadly fumes when I'm in the room
Repercussions occur when you dry snitch
Red light, green light
One, two, three
Look mean, got my machine
Cried and hit you, please
Say shake that body, scar up that body
Should I kill him now Ton'?
I said probably
Side bets are four and better
Bust hammers with pot holders
And yo, dead a cow for his fuckin' leather
I’m not bow-legged but old school like Redd Foxx
My favorite colour in my hustle days was red tops
My gold eagle arm shitted out a red rock
Threw it off my project roof, saw red dots
Kanye, shine a light on my Wallabees
You can have a good time with G.O.D
[Hook x2]
[Outro: Kanye West]
G.O.O.D. Music! G.O.O.D. Music!
G.O.O.D. Music! G.O.O.D. Music!
And all my niggas say "G.O.O.D. Music!"
And all my ladies say "G.O.O.D. Music!"
I don't know but I've been told
(I don't know but I've been told)
If you get fresh get all the hoes
(If you get fresh get all the hoes)
I'm way fresher than all my foes
(I'm way fresher than all my foes)
Somebody please pick out they clothes
(Somebody please pick out they clothes)
And all my niggas say "G.O.O.D. Music!"
And all my ladies say "G.O.O.D. Music!"
Who runnin' shit today? G.O.O.D. Music!
Who runnin' shit today? G.O.O.D. Music!


[Produced by Pharrell Williams]
[Intro - Kanye West] & (Pharrell)
World's... world's... world's famous (2X)
Your now listenin to (girl)
Skateboard P and the Louis Vuitton Don
 (I'm back)
It's so unfair so unreasonable
Let's go
[Verse 1 - Pharrell] & (Kanye)
I musta hurt your feelings (come on)
Your temper hit the ceiling
You know I wanna talk to you (get em P)
Oh girl come on (come on)
But to maintain this livin (come on come on)
God knows it's not given
 (come on)
You know I got a lots to do (let's take em up)
Oh girl come on (come on)
I know this part ain't pretty (come on come on)
But you know I been busy (yeah)
Thats why I can't talk long on the phone (uh huh)
Oh girl come on (come on)
So honey if you with me (come on come on)
Know I'll look for your pretty (yeah)
Face to smile when I get home
And when we make love you know it's gon' be amazin (yeah)
Cause you're my
[Hook - Pharrell] & (Kanye)
Number 1 (baby girl you and me)
Smash hit (thats a hit to me)
Off the charts (look how she get to me)
Classic (she may not be nothin to you but she the shit to me)
Soon as I'm done (tell me how you love that)
I'm dashin (number 1 can't put nothin above that)
Home to hold your heart (you deserve a verse from me)
And smash it (we gon' party like it's our anniversary)
Go
[Verse 2 - Pharrell] & (Kanye)
Didn't I just tell ya (yo)
That you
'
re my Cinderella (get em P)
My dream ball ain't fixed one sight (come on)
Oh girl come on (come on come on)
Baby.. you know I'd rather be where you are (world's famous)
You are my shining star
But last night that just wasn't right
Oh girl come on (come on come on)
I know this part ain't pretty (come on)
But you know I been busy
Thats why I can't talk long on the phone (the international)
It's hard for you baby girl come on (world's famous)
So honey if you with me (yeah)
Know I'll look for your pretty (everybody)
Face to smile when I get home (I need you to sing along with me)
And when we make love you know it's gon' be amazin (this part right here
It's comin up check it out)
Cause you're my (everybody say)
[Hook - Pharrell x2] & (Kanye)
[Verse 3 - Kanye West]
Yesterday I was half the man you see
Baby thats because you the other half of me
You my number 1 hit on the line of the charts
I'mma FedEx my love and have you +sign+ for my heart
For my number 1 I keep ya dumb fly
Fresh to death you like after death
I resurrected my gold Jesus of Nazareth
Now we Fresh as a Prince while they Jazzy Jeff
And you don't be sayin shit when they askin questions
A-a-and you be givin. me my space a-a-and
You don't be runnin. on MySpace
 
a-a-and
You know some other shit I hate w-w-what
W-w-when they violate b-but
Tonight man I ain't in the mood for it
Don't matter who wore it, you wore it
Look how ya co-or Dinated man that's my favorite
I love the way that it
[Hook - Pharrell x2] & (Kanye)
Number 1 (fits on you)
Smash hit (girl that's the shit on you)
Off the charts (look how she get to me)
Classic (she may not be nothing to you but she the shit to me)
Soon as I'm done (t-tell me how you love that)
I'm dashing (number 1 can't put nothing above that)
Home to hold your heart (you deserve a verse from me)
And smash it (we gon' party like it's our anniversary)
[Outro - Kanye] & (Pharrell)
World's... world's... world's famous (you're my number 1 girl)
World's... world's... world's famous (you're my number 1 girl)
World's... world's... world's famous (you're my number 1 girl)
World's... world's... world's famous (you're my number 1 girl)


[Produced by DJ Don Cannon and Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
I'm so bossy, bitch, get off me
It's a different jingle when you hear these car keys
Your SL's missing an S, nigga
Your plane's missing a chef
The common theme, see they both got wings
If you fly, do it to death
It's only one God, and it's only one crown
So it's only one king that can stand on this mound
King Push,
 
kingpin,
 
overlord
Coast Guard come a hundred going overboard
I got money with the best of 'em
Go blow for blow with any Mexican
Don't let your side bitches settle in
Might have to headbutt your Evelyn
Ballers, I put numbers on the boards
Hard to get a handle on this double-edged sword
Whether rapping or I'm rapping to a whore
Might reach back and relapse to wrapping up this raw
Givenchy fitting like it's gym clothes
We really gymstars, I'm like D. Rose
No D-league, I'm like this close
'88 Jordan, leaping from the free throw
[Break]
Ballers, I put numbers on the boards
[Verse 2]
(Mothafuckas can't rhyme no more, 'bout crime no more)
Mix drug and show money, Biggs Burke on tour
25 bricks, move work like chore
Hit Delaware twice, needed 25 more
I see flaw, cracks in your diamond
CB4
 
when you rhyme, Simple Simon
Come and meet the pieman,
 
a must that I flaunt it
The legend grows legs when it comes back to haunt us
Ballers, I put numbers on the boards
Can't a bitch living say I bought her Michael Kors
Every car driven was decided by the horse
Keep the sticker in the window 'case you wonder what it cost
How could you relate when you ain't never been great?
And rely on rap money to keep food up on your plates, nigga?
I might sell a brick on my birthday
36 years of doing dirt like it's Earth Day, God
[Break]


[Intro: Kanye (talking)]
You rap. I'm gonna rap the way I rap.
 Youknowhatimsayin'?
And we gonna murder these niggas. Kan man product c'mon. 
Andy C where you at?
[Hook: Kanye West]
I hit the block on ten in a drop top Benz
You can go against the guns but the Glocks gon' win
Lyrically killin' y'all niggas but
"I sweat it live
Is he gonna live doc?
No. The nigga died." — Ol' Dirty Bastard 'Hippa To The Hoppa'
[Transition: Kanye West]
If they don't know, let's learn 'em
Rhymefest burn 'em
[Verse 1: Rhymefest]
To the ground like Waco
Fake ho
Take yo
Ass back to the drawing board
Where the chalk at?
Used to have a lot to say
Where the talk at?
Speak your heart
Don't mumble under your breath
I caught that
You a thug now
Back in high school we never fall back
Punked out
Jumped out, basically
Hoes is like, "Ewww get away from me."
They was chasin' me
And it's still the same
I'm still the same
You still a lame
You know how that song go
"Some things will never change"
Some niggas will never grow like Emmanuel Lewis
And while you fightin' for respect bitches is handin' it to us
So when
I'm arrivin'
Guns risin'
Niggas join the swim team, start divin'
The streets is hot
Police yo block
Like Prudential, all these smokers want a piece of the rock
Uhhh
And all these hoes want a piece of the cock
And all these haters gonna get is a piece of the Glock
I'm the reason ain't no motherfuckin' peace on the block
And I ain't Q-Tip but I'll make your breathin' stop
[Hook: Kanye West] [x2]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
From the front to the back, where my thugs at?
My niggas love that
Gun talk, I talk, now everyone choke
Cause I came with it
Some ain't with it
Niggas get money maine, some can't get it
Everybody wanna be what Kanye West be in
In the bulletproof 5 what the Pres be in
With a half black, half white lesbian
But you
Minimum wage like a Mexican
My guns don't discriminate, they penetrate
Y'all niggas don't get hype, you hyperventilate
So before you take your last breath any last statements?...
[Kanye West (talking)]
Man, this nigga Fest said
"I ain't Q-Tip but I'll make your breathin' stop/+Breathe & Stop+"
Man, I can't come with no line after that man
Just bring this shit back in, c'mon man
[Hook: Kanye West] [x2]
[Verse 3: Rhymefest]
You the type to run into a party, already tooted up
Can't get in?
So you run, get a strap and shoot it up
Mad cause you not looted up
Hoes said, "He wasn't cute enough."
Tried his damnedest
Couldn't do enough
Fuck star stats, we still car jack
Hit it up
Runnin' through the man who flashin' that leather
Give it up
My Taurus like to spark a lot
He ain't a player he just talk a lot
We whupped his ass in the parkin' lot
Hopped back in the truck and lit the dutch
Now he on the ground lookin' double jointed as fuck
It's the R-H-Y
Fuck tryin' to spell it
I live it how I tell it
Get hoes like Tom Selleck
My clip gets hollow tips yours takes pellets
Sayin' my weed fly and I can't even smell it
I can see why you broke
Punk nigga
My car is paid off
You a month to month nigga
I roll with I-don't-care-throw-him-in-the-trunk niggas
Roll up to your high school just to jump niggas
Pussy ass niggas
[Hook: Kanye West] [x6]


[Verse 1]
You don't want to see these murder guys
Princess cuts hurt your eyes
Got the chicks that work them thighs
Pull the top back on the prowler
Like the car ain't circumcised
Burglarize hoes
Leave your eyes closed
Bricks in my trunk while I ride slow
Smoke your fire dro
No repercussions
He was disgusting
Turn my volume under ten
To keep my speakers from busting
If them people come rushing
Can't say I froze
Won't open the doors
By the time they caught up
I done disposed of my outer clothes
Car in the garage
I say good god
My day was hard
Call two freaks up for the ménage à trois
Parlaying was hard
Sade was suave
When we was screwing
Sheets was ruined
If beef is brewing
I'm a put slugs deep into him
Money they be pursuing
The nerve of these jealous bastards for hatin'
Master my patience
Them custom wood grain caskets is waitin'
Passion for satin
They must have
Gave them a blood bath
Had to show them who really holding shit down with they tough ass
We alias
They wishing they be us
Can't three-eighty us
Cause we will wreck everything within a ten block radius
When you see me better speak with love
Or leak some blood
I got connections with all type of BM, chiefs and govs
Deeply plugged who got to retire from crime
About to hit that big lick
So we gonna pull it
[Hook]
Hit 'em in the body and the dome
Left the after party with the chrome
Come up with a milly
And as soon as everybody know that I'm gone
Gotta keep it Gangsta'
Cause I'm a hustla'
Do it like a balla'
Cause I'm a mobsta'
[Verse 2]
Cause it only takes a second to pop me a snitch
Call up my connection to cop me a brick
And he sent a Czechoslovakian chick
She was acting cocky and shit
She like watching blow at the hote
With big dreams to never stop being rich
And she wasn't too sloppy with dick
Said when she get on she gonna cop me a six
Platinum blue Sprewell shoes
Detail smooth
On some Mickey and Mallory me and my female cruise
Type of demo what's the ?
I Gave her two-six plus ten-four
That's twelve-five for the brick
And five-hundred for the plane and limo
Plain and simple
Call my guy told him thanks and send more
Meditating plot on my lick when I smell them frankincense blow
Do my thugdizzle
I ain't scared of this
Fly your head like Pegasus
Bloody up that necklace
Hope I'm an arrow ?
Them terrorist
Fucked up the lick when sending chicks on the plane
Put a major glitch in the game
But I'm a get me them thangs
As I come with new ways to travel watch my shorties get on them
Coming back with pounds and packages with the scorpions on them
Of course we been on them
Niggas know they two for forty and want them
I done seen truck loads with more keys than accordions on them
And you think I'm a pass up
That quick fast dust
Let me mask up
That ain't a fast truck
Get your ass stuffed
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I spit words that be gangster shit
Make hustlers tip and ballers rich
Hatters sick, mobsters hit
I'm the shit
You can see me visit the optometrist
Cars I flip
Unorthodox like Doctor Bonovich
Prada lick
But a nigga got whooped
Should have seen shit was funny
My own connection he got reason to gun me
I know he took the money
Even if I probably wrong
Turn down the volume
Shoot him on plastic to lay his body on
Fucking ?
Two to the 
cabeza
Pinche puto
That ring on your pinky was too cold
Got pinch for two O's
And a half a brick
My staff is sick
Had him confess like a catholic
Always thought things was funny now you don't laugh at shit
Stupid bastard bitch
Never fuck with Twista, Turtle Banxx and Stokes
Coming up dro flowing slanging dope
I tried to chill
But when I see a lick to make the world mine
ON the love
I think I got to pull it
[Hook]


“I’m not gonna mention him no more, I’m past that,”
 
Yeezus said of the president on Philadelphia station Hot 107.9.
 “That’s out my thoughts. That’s lowering my priority of thinking at this point.”
“Oh, you talking about how h
e use to come and visit me and my mama and tell me he’s about to run for president?” Ye' replied when asked if he would ever 
"break bread"
 with the president and continued, 
“I just think that we’re pop icons
, 
and the president likes to use that type of thing just to be down.
 People was fine with me being everyone’s punching bag for about five years — ‘This is the person we love to hate, 
so if you want to distract people from everything that’s going on
 … just say you hate Kanye and there’s going be 30 other people who say they hate Kanye.’ That was kind of my position in culture and he kind of used that too — 
‘Oh, he’s a jackass’
 — because that’s how the world felt."
“I don’t care if someone’s the president or not,” Kanye finished. “I care about thoughts and how you helping people and what you bring to the world.”


[Produced by Benji B, Daft Punk, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Verse 1]
Yeezy season approachin'
Fuck whatever y'all been hearin'
Fuck what, fuck whatever y'all been wearin'
A monster about to come alive again
Soon as I pull up and park the Benz
We get this bitch shaking like Parkinsons
Take my number and lock it in
Indian hair, no moccasins
It's too many hoes in this house of sin
Real nigga back in the house again
Black Timbs all on your couch again
Black dick all in your spouse again
And I know she like chocolate men
She got more niggas off than Cochran,
 
hah!
[Hook]
On sight, on sight
[Bridge]
How much do I not give a fuck?
Let me show you right now 'fore you give it up
How much do I not give a fuck?
Let me show you right now 'fore you give it up
[Interlude]
He'll give us what we need
It may not be what we want
[Verse 2]
Baby girl tryna get a nut
And her girl tryna give it up
Chopped 'em both down
Don't judge 'em, Joe Brown
One last announcement
No sports bra, let's keep it bouncin'
Everybody wanna live at the top of the mountain
Took her to the 'Bleau, she tried to sip the fountain
That when David Grutman kicked her out
But I got her back in and put my dick in her mouth
[Hook]
Uh-huh
Uh-huh
Uh-huh
Uh-huh
[Outro]
Right now
I need right now


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Rick James]
Yeah, Kanye, Bump J, and I'm Rick James bitch
Coming at you live
[Hook: Rick James & Bump J]
You wanna lock me down, cuff me up
Since we hooked up, baby I'm on the run
(I'm on the run that's the dope)
And I can't stop now
I'm driving at top speed now, top is down
You hear the cops shout cause baby I'm on the run
And I can't stop now
[Verse 1: Bump J]
I'd be a fool to stop now, I'm on a roll
If I ain't on these blocks hustlin' I'm on and off the road
I'd rather be in the seat of the 645 with two shotguns
Or in a suite taking off your clothes
And yes, the connection and sex is crazy
But you just want to be like Jodeci, forever my lady
I don't think we on the same page see
I just wanna kick it, hit it, and you tryna have my baby
Lock me down while I'm young, but I'm livin' my life
Shawty I can't stop now, I'm on the run
This is not the end, we can still be friends
Just as long as you understand that you can't
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Don't think that we a couple cause I'm with you tonight
I gotta hit the streets, I gotta move this white
And when it comes to spoilin' you, I'ma do you right
You tryna put the cuffs on me like the blue and whites
Do what I can for ya, shoes on that brand new Lamb for ya
Carats on ya neck and hands for ya, ya man love ya
He got plans for ya, you know now
Ya moving too fast, slow down
We can do it up, private jet around the land
Go tan on the yacht, dock by the sand
I'll put it all in your hands
Just as long as you understand that you can't
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I got this girl in L.A, she's so Hollywood
Gotta whole lot of paper cause her father good
Take me shoppin' 'round town, and she want Bump J to settle down
And for the [?], I probably should
I'm just jokin', I told her when I'm in town I'll call her
I don't see her much, she done found herself a baller
Good for ya, I was no good for ya
You deserve somebody like that, I'm way too hood for ya
And every other girl that Bump might've ran
They got a mixed signal, thinkin' I'ma be they man
It ain't over, I probably am
Just as long as you understand that you can't
[Hook]


Dear Kanye West,
I am honored to be writing such an important star. 
I am a mere Internet sensation.
 I’m not sure I am worthy to address you, although the 
Huffington Post did say I was “Humorous and Insanely Popular.”
 I don't pay much attention to those things. Anyway, please excuse my interference in your life for a quick second.
I read your interview and also watched it on video.
 You said:
“I’m just giving of my body on the stage and putting my life at risk, literally.….and I think about it. I think about my family and I’m like, wow, this is like being a police officer or something, in war or something.”
I want to thank you for putting your life on the line for all of us every day
. I know that being a rapper is tough work. I have tried to rap, and it is very difficult to keep up with the pulse of the rhyme flow…
although when Ice Ice Baby comes on the radio, I can usually keep up with ol’ Vanilla
. Anywho, your job is just some very dangerous work. Most people don't consider... if you rap really fast, without a chance to inhale, you could pass out and hit your head.
That last paragraph was covered in sarcasm. I’m letting you know, just so you do not think I agree with your very ignorant assessment of your career (or any other performer)as it relates to a person in the military or a police officer’s service.
 
You sir, are as misguided as they come.
 I do have a suggestion for you. Since you are accustomed to danger, from your life as an international rapper, I am strongly encouraging you immediately abandon you career as a super star and join the military. After joining, I would like you to volunteer to be deployed in Afghanistan or one of the numerous other forward locations where our men an women are currently serving. When the Taliban starts shooting at you, perhaps you could stand up and let the words flow. It could be something like 
“I’m Kanye West, wearing a flak vest.”
 I’m sure they would just drop weapons and surrender. You could quite possibly end all wars, just from the enemy being star-struck.
Your line of thinking is part of the problem in the world today…
.which include entertainers thinking they are something more than just entertainers.
 I know it is supply and demand and the demand for your services is high. I get economics. What I do not get is you EVER comparing what you do for a living to our heroic military members, who are always in harm’s way… 
and my brother and sister police officers who have to go to work carrying weapons and wearing a bullet-proof vest to protect themselves.
Check yourself, before you wreck yourself….Chief Oliver.


[Produced by Boogz N Tapes, Darhyl Camper, Dave Tozer & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
I see you in the lonely place
How can you be so blind
You still regretting the love you left, left behind
Oh darling, I seen you go through the changes
Sitting alone each night
Are you expecting to find the love, love that's right
[Hook]
Darling open your eyes
Let me show you light
Girl you never find a love that's right
Darling open your eyes
Let me show you the light
Girl you think you're so wise, you're so wise
[Verse 2]
There are times when you need someone
I will be by your side
I'll take my chances before they pass, pass me by
Oh darling, there is a light that shines
Special for you and me
You need to look at the other side, you'll agree
[Hook x2]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro: Otis Redding]
It makes it easier, easier to bear
You won't regret it, no, no, no
Some girls, they don't forget it
Love is their whole happiness
Squeeze her, don't tease her, never leave her
(Sounds so soulful, don’t you agree?)
[Jay-Z]
I invented swag, poppin bottles, putting supermodels in the cab
Proof, I guess I got my swagger back,
 
truth
New watch alert: Hublots
Or the big face Rollie, I got two of those
Arm out the window through the city,
 
I maneuver slow
Cock back,
 
snap back, see my cut through the holes
[Kanye West]
Damn Yeezy and Hov, where the hell ya been?
Niggas talking real reckless; stuntmen
I adopted these niggas, Phillip Drummond them
Now I’m about to make them tuck their whole summer in
They say I’m crazy, but I’m about to go dumb again
They ain't seen me cause I pulled up in my other Benz
Last week I was in my other other Benz
Throw your diamonds up cause we in this bitch another 'gain
[Jay-Z]
Photo shoot fresh, looking like wealth
I’m 'bout to call the paparazzi on myself
Live from the Mercer
Run up on Yeezy the wrong way, I might murk ya
Flee in the G450 I might surface
Political refugee, asylum can be purchased
Everything's for sale
I got 5 passports, I’m never going to jail
[Kanye West]
I made Jesus Walks, so I'm never going to hell
Couture level flow is never going on sale
Luxury rap, the Hermes of verses
Sophisticated ignorance, write my curses in cursive
I get it custom, you a customer
You ain't accustomed to going through customs
You ain't been nowhere, hah?
And all the ladies in the house got them showing off
I’m done I'll hit you up maña...nah!
[Jay-Z]
Welcome to Havana
Smoking Cubana’s with Castro in cabanas
Viva Mexico, Cubano
Dominicano, all the plugs that I know
Driving Benzes with no benefits
Not bad, huh, for some immigrants?
Build your fences, we digging tunnels
Can’t you see we gettin money up under you?
[Kanye]
Can’t you see the private jets flying over you?
Maybach bumper sticker reads: "What would Hova do?"
Jay is chilling, Ye is chilling
What more can I say?
 
We killing 'em
Hold up before we end this campaign
As you can see we done bodied the damn lames
Lord please let them accept the things they can't change
And pray that all of their pain be champagne


[Hook: John Legend]
We can't even sit and talk, without you arguing
You're the one who started it
[Verse 1]
I got a girl at home but she don't cook
I have my condoms in the stove cause she won't look
And she never ever go to the grocery store
So I figure its safe to pull a grocery ho
She was buyin Alize out the liquor isle
She said "I hope its not too ghetto"
Rocked all gold force back in style
I kept her number on file for my girl be actin wild
Like last week I told her take me to the mall
But she don't drive
My other girl picked me up at 3:05
She got a brand new car, 16
Now the car only 1 years old, oh
Man but the body look grown, whoa
Before I catch a case I better take my ass home
Where the problems is, arguments be Daly like Carson is
But the problem is.
.
[Hook]
We can't even sit and talk no more, without you arguing
Girl you must be out of your mind, no no no
You're the one who started it
[Verse 2]
Hold up, wait a second man
That's that thrift store info, that's all second hand
Why don't you talk to the mouth of the horses 'bout my Porsches
Condos in front of the golf courses
Instead you stay up, countin every second like a fake Roley
I'm real, so you know I move real slowly
The way the censorship'll go off, you know me
I ain't call you, you wanna know why?
Im in Noha, Hon aloha, pushin jet skis so I
Couldn't return the pages on my Motorola
Nextel, my cell, it don't work down there
What happened in Cancun? Stays down there
What's happenin here? Made me wish I stayed down there
Take a seat, why you always makin a beef?
You know these walls too thin in this 
apart-a-ment
Now everybody hearin our arguments
But the problem is..
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Man, boo you know what I do
So don't trip when I come home after 2 or 3 or 4
I ain't messin with them girls no more
It's weak
, 
the benz coupe is so sweet
When I roll down the street, tears roll down her cheek
She said, "You must love that car more than me
And nigga I was with you before the cheese
So you need to work on your pri-or-ities
If she went with Fabolous I bet that she would be
A-R-G-U-I-N-G and please
I'm not actin like this cause I'm getting spins on
W-K-R-P in Cincinnati
You think I'd get my voice so deep like
W-K-R-P in Cincinnati
That's how much of a fuck I give
You seen cribs? That's how the fuck I live
As far as this?
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
(*talking*)
Oh you didn't think we could do it again
Twista, Kanye West, from Po Pimpin' to Poppin' Tags
From Champions to Slow Jammin', oh baby
We can even make you a overnight celebrity
Know what I'm saying, come on
[Hook: Kanye & Twista]
Why don't we play something these hoes'll like
Drive whips I know they like
Twista, you told her, right
I could make you a celebrity overnight
Give you ice like Kobe wife
We sorta like Goldie, right
The way we mold 'em right
I could make you a celebrity overnight
[Twista]
Girl I see you in them Apple Bottom jeans
Chinchilla on your back, I wanna know your name
Girl I'm Twista, I could blow your brains
Put you in a chameleon '04 Range
Still sexy when you smoke that flame
Jerk it like a chicken when you throw that thang
She got me hotter than a oven the way that she talk
Switching to freaky so I'm loving the way that she walk
You looking good, girl, you oughta be in pictures
Listen to me, I see your career going sky high
Taking you home to the crib in the Chi
And everytime I see your thighs I cry when I drive by
Watching you should be a thrill, got the fellas on some Johnny Gill
Steady screaming "my, my, my, my"
Walk on the carpet with the diamonds that flick in the dark
Kicking it on the couch at 106 & Park
I can see your beauty on the big screen
I can see me freaking you with whipped cream
I can see you on stage at the awards
With a dress better than Jennifer's and doing big things
Kick it with me I can mold your life
You looking good girl, show you right
Dre told me you the prototype
I can make you a celebrity overnight
[Hook - 2x]
[Twista]
You want fame, you can take that path
Candlelights 'fore you take a bath
You got such a sensational ass
I'mma get you Jimmy Choo and Marc Jacob bags
I can cop her a 2003
Make her smile when she sees Spre's
I can get you on CDs and DVDs
Take you to BeBe's and BCBG
I can get you into places to be into
The people to know or show you things to get into
I wanna be your lover and your confidant
And protect you from others, don't ever let a brother pimp you
If you want the style, you can get ya girl
Y'all take a look at her, she got such an astonishing body
I can see ya in some Gucci or Robert Cavalli
And I bet she gon' put a hurt on 'em hard in the party
And you know you kill 'em in the club we go
You was born to be a pro, how you know who's taking photos
And I love you cause you freaky with the door closed
Drop it to the flo', let that go when you roll slow
And I love it when I hit it from the back
And you get on top of me and have a brother going "oh-oh"
Girl I love how you roll me right
I can make you a celebrity overnight
[Hook]
(*talking*)
You see, see baby girl
You see how you make a brother break down
I just gotta ask you, what you need
What you need from me, oh you wanna be a star
Are you messing with the right one
I can take you there, I can make sure
You've got all the finest things
Let me be your manager
[Twista]
Come here girl, I could see you bored
Tell you you're the queen that I see you for
Take you shopping on sprees in stores
I'mma get you to the MTV awards
We about to do a show tonight
You looking good girl, show you right
Take you places I know you like
I could make you a celebrity overnight
Come here girl, you could hang if you bored
We could do plenty things plus more
I'm about to have you changin' in stores
I can even get you to the Soul Train awards
We about to do a show tonight
You looking good girl, show you right
Take you places I know you like
I could make you a celebrity overnight


[Sample]
My world came to an end
And then you came back
I think you brought it back together
Now I know
There is no (there is no)
Way (there's no there is no way)
That I can go on without you baby
[Verse One: Kanye West]
Yeah, history in the makin, Do or Die
Yeah, yeah, uh, uh, uh
Me and Do or Die got maneuvers
Cold pimp tactics all in one package
Hollerin' at a chick that could of been a actress
Right now her back is layin' on my mattress
Why your team pissed like urine
Only rock things made for a king
Tell me tell me it was the LV
Bigger that the jeans of the
Rap floor green
That's how I gotcha
So I you want a role model to call like Patra
Quit hollerin' at them losers
And get with this shit that
Got his own business an entrepreneur
[Verse Two]
Off the block now
Shit got the pipe down
Industry niggas I just got bomb
Track from Kanye West pass the bomb aye
Kick the doors down like 
Desert Storm
Where's the millions
I'm the chameleon
Transformatin', rock a show like God
Drivin' for status
Big my apparatus
You gotta now I'm getting all that dough
Hotter than your shit
Bullshit, got a full clip
Think I'm a punk then get your back broke slow
I'm the shiznick down to my diznick
Lyrics so hot enough for frozen snow
Feel of the bomb again and get fucked the he say she say
He say she say I ain't gon make it
The throne is my mine
Chi-town where's the crown
From the days of 
Capone
, nigga
You know we gon take it
I wanna vint Vivian and own my own block
Print my check like Johnny Walker Scott
Damn if you do or you don't you move over
Save some room for the black Casanova
Ladies and gentlemen. You is tunin' in to Do Or Die (thank you) Kanye West
Chi-town finest.
 World clap your hands for us one time
It's the world premiere, You don't understand though
Man we got the plan. We gon put it in your hands like this
It ain't nothing happenin'. You know what I'm sayin'?
We make it happen. Bullshit ain't nothing Joe. Chi-town finest
You know how it go. Come on. Come on
Uh, come on, come on
[Verse Three]
This the last time you see my like this here stuntin'
16,5 & 3 ain't that somethin'?
As long as we makin the paper the hoes comin'
Suppose I get behind the mic and flow somethin'
Kanye show the chain ladies expose something
With a hummer H2 with the Benz there's no frontin'
With some ice you can skate on
Now I got no weight on
It's gettin to the point when the ballas try hate on
Proticops I stayed on
And made a lot of hot songs
Do you think I'm a P.I.M.P
In a 
SL5
 Halle Berry colors scoop me
Groupies and Gucci you know you can't exclude me
Ladies get around be like "He's so cool G"
No I'm not booshie just Eric and Young Stoopie
The black 
Hugh Heffner
[Verse Four]
Tell me tell me Lord can you hear me?
Sometimes I walk these streets and get weary
Most of the times I can't let these niggas get near me
With this hatred, jealousy, and envy
I went to church and they said you had a remedy
A remedy to set me free and take away my enemies
So I pray to the day when I get to see
All the faces that put me down up in the industry
So from the street to the club
It's ya boy show me love
We gotta keep it gangstas that's how we gettin love
Never fall for the love of the dough
Stay true, straight to the facts and the game to show
Sample


[Produced by Kanye West and No I.D.]
[Intro: Future]
I don't never feel pain, cause I done felt too much pain
Money goin in the rain,
 
blood flowing through my veins
I'm just doing my thing, get money, babygirl, gold chains
I don't never feel pain, cause I done felt too much pain
Standing in the rain, blood flowing through my veins
I ain't never did a thing,
 
getting money, rocking chains
We'll never feel the same,
 
we the thugs in the game
I don't never feel pain
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
18 wheeler gorillas
Black with gold chains, pitch bird like steelers
Hines Ward of the crime lords
Running through this money screaming "encore"
Spending nights with the prime whore
But that's the bitch that you're blind for
Celebrating on a whim, nigga
Pain is Pac above the rim, nigga
My bitch rock a bigger gem, niggas
Cause she was there when it was dim, nigga
She wasn't fucking none of them niggas
So now we're even like a hem, nigga
Put your freedom over failure
Tryna find my Griselda
 
(La Madrina!)
Might as well, they gon' nail ya
Momma screaming like Mahalia
Pain is love and it's war
Pain is running out of raw
Pain is finding out you're poor
As the feds knock at your door
[Hook: Future]
I dont never feel pain, cause I done felt too much pain
Been around here, standing in the rain, blood flowing through my veins
I'm just doing my thing, getting money, rocking tons of gold chains
I dont never feel pain, cause I done felt too much pain
I'm just standing in the rain, blood flowing through my veins
I'm just doing my thing, getting money, rock a hundred gold chains
Million dollars on one gold ring
[Verse 2: Pusha T]
Pain is joy when it cries
It's my smile in disguise
It's what makes the story chilling
Spare the women and the children
Hear the scribbles of the villain (Yugh!)
This is drug dealer brilliance
Pyrex on the platter like hot sex
But my tribe don't quest like love
Pain in this bitch, with a mask and a glove
And a team of lawyers to run the train on the judge
It's no risk without gain
It's no trust without shame
It's no us without 'Cain
Push, my name is my name
In the kitchen with a cape on, apron
Tre-eight on,
 
coulda been Trayvon
But instead I chose Avon
Powder face like a geisha
Arm & Hammer for the breakup
Turn one into two, watch the brick kiss and makeup (Woo!)
It's a match made in heaven
All that's missing is the reverend
All that's missing is a blessing
I hope God gets the message
[Hook]


[Intro]
Ooh I promise not to do it again
I promise not to do it
[Verse 1: John Legend]
You can't say I don't love you
Just because I cheat on you
Cause you can't see all I do
To keep you from knowing the things I do
Like erase my phone
And keep it out of town
I keep it strapped up when I sleep around
Well I should have known one day you'd find out
But you can't go and leave me now
[Hook: John Legend]
You know that I love you (know that I love you)
There's no one above you (no one above you)
I said it the last time (hey, hey)
But this is the last time
Don't make me over (don't leave me baby)
Cuz I can be faithful (you know I try)
Baby you're my number one (baby)
You're my number one
[Verse 2: John Legend]
Now who is she?
What's her name?
You don't need to know about everything
We fight about this
We fight about that
You hang up the phone and call me right back
Well I'll never be something I'm not
Please don't throw away what we've got
Cuz we've been together for way too long
I was playing around but I'm coming home
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I keep you laced up so you ain't gotta borrow nothing
From them broke ass friends who be bargain hunting
They say they shop on eBay --baby why is they frontin'?
They be on the internet but they never cop nothin'
I keep you in Girl what is those on your toes?
And your neck staying froze off that rose colored gold
I suppose you was told by them hoes I was cheatin'
Thinkin' my heart don't got nothing to do with my penis
He got a mind of his own and he just be seeing shit
And I don't wanna cheat but I don't be saying shit
I try to jack off he ask me who is you playin' wit?
But I know he love you he told me you was his favorite
[Hook]
[Verse 4: John Legend]
You're making it hard for me
You're messing up everything
You tell me I gotta leave
Say we over
You saw that she came over
Came in the Range Rover
Left with a hangover
Say we over
I promise I won't cheat
I promise I won't lie
I promise I'll act right
Say we over
You can't tell me
I can't have you
I can't have that
We ain't over


 Yo yo, what’s good?!
 What up, killer?!
 Shit, chillin’, vibin’ about changing the name of that song and trying to figure out what the name of the song should be. 
You know, the “Theraflu” song?
 Yeah
 Yeah, we’re about to give it a new name
 It’s getting that big – they’re going 
 crazy about it?
 Oh, yeah they have an issue. Just the title and here’s still a window of opportunity for us to change it. “Oh, well, I don’t want to call it ‘Theraflu’. I’m calling the song this…” And then people are like, “oh, he changed the song to this”, and then that’s what it is, because when I did the song, I actually did not know that it would get to the point that grandmothers are talking about it, you know? 
Like why did I give them that level of promotion?
 Yeah, trust me, they’re thankful. No matter what, they’re thankful. This segues perfectly into what I wanted to talk to you about. Which is what is it like to be – and I know how I feel about it – but you’re definitely one of my peers, and one that I look at and say “He gets it, but I’d love to hear his take on why we aspire to be.” 
It’s almost a disease to be a perfectionist. Nothing is ever quite good enough. What is it like to look at things and say to yourself, “I know that they don’t get it but maybe one day they will.”
 It is so funny this is such an example of being a perfectionist, right? This song is out and I’m going to change the name, like I want to perfect this moment some more. Well, I think it’s just if you’re a perfectionist, that’s just what you do. You know, there are slackers there are people who are satisfied by delivering everything they have – with their knowledge, their financial situation, their level of exposure – to deliver the best product possible. 
I respect, look up to, and look to Walt Disney and Steve Jobs who dedicated their time, soul and energy to delivering the best product that they knew they could.
 There’s a lot of psychology that goes into it. What can you give to human existence? How can you push the culture forward? And when you’re a perfectionist, at a certain point you feel a responsibility in what you put out, and what could trickle down from it. 
If you put out things that are so over-the-top and magnificent, what trickles down from it could at least be good because there are more followers than there are leaders
 Yeah I agree…You know what the funny thing is that we’ve never done it on a Kanye West album, it might be time for that
 Yeah!
 It might be time for that
 Yeah, we started on that shit for [Watch] The Throne
 Oh yeah! That was a very serious moment…
 Yes!
 
I’ll never forget going to you and Jay’s show, and just seeing those laser lights.
 You addressed all the sensations, with the exception of smell and taste, I guess. 
Anything that you could control, the auditory and the visual, you curated – you made sure that it was a curated moment.
 
And I’ll never forget when the first bars of “Gotta Have It” started playing, that minor chord. It just hits you anyway but it was just y’all talking on top of the track as it starts to come on, and the crowd start going nuts!
 And it’s really because at the end of the day, as great as the track is as it is and as great as all of the stuff you guys did on top of it, it was how the moment was so set up. 
It was like an incredible layup, an alley-oop. Do people even say that word anymore, alley-oop?
 Yeah, it’s only ‘cause it happens
 
[laughs] yeah, you know I don’t know anything about basketball,
 but it was an amazing set-up. That was crazy, just to see the reaction to what a visual and music could do together, and those people going absolutely crazy I was like “oh, ok, well done man, well done.”
 Yeah I definitely wanted to dial into that sound and mixing those textures together. I just want to dial into that more, I just want to set the note, 
like playing a few textures that I got for this new shit for the G.O.O.D. Music joint we opened up the album with this joint that me and Skrillex did together
 Mmmmm. I like that!
 Just like that!
 Wow, I can’t wait to hear what that sounds like. I know we are all shaped and moulded by all that we’ve gone through, and by having spirituality – in whatever way you define it – it allows us to be bigger than our bodies, to be bigger than our essence. [But] there is something to be said for experience, being told “no” the entire time, when you wanted to get into an industry that you love. So let me ask you, how much has this experience contributed to who you became as a person?
 Yeah, you know, I had to realize at what point to put off the 
real South Side Chicago mentality,
 that is what built me to deal with the amount of “no’s” and deal with the amount of pressure and aggression, like I talked about on this Chicago song, “mink is draggin’ on the floor.” That’s one of my ideas for it [renaming ‘Theraflu’]. “Swag King Cole, mink is dragin’ on the floor, fo’ I embarrass you, but I don’t like to embarrass you…’I Don’t Like To Embarrass You” as the title
 
Anticipating PETA
 Yeah, so…when I say “I’m from where shorty’s fucked up, double-cupped up. Might even kill some-body and YouTube it, so whoever thinks their words affect me is too stupid, and if you think you can do it better than me, then you do it.”
 Yeah, “you do it!”
 [laughs]
 
“I’m from Chicago.” And that was just one of the best things to prepare me for anything. If you can make it out of Chicago, you can make it anywhere. That’s what I’m talking about on this new song, that’s what I’m talking about when I’m dealing with any business or creative processes.
 That’s the stuff I’m talking about when I was dealing with people, from not wanting me to rap, to [not] doing the tour with Jay, and being able to do the light show for it 
It was like sit-ins, when we were going out to Paris.
 You know when we were wearing the outfits and people on the blogs were calling us names and all that, right? But then, once they got that Givenchy cover, and everybody’s wearing Givenchy they’re all like “oh this is cool.”
 Right
 
But it wasn’t cool with 
 was using the photo and dissing us and everything. And so many people dress like that now
 [Laughs in agreement] Yeah, that’s what we do
 
That was before everybody said swag, or when we were out in Japan. How could you communicate through people? We’re not even understanding the language but we knew the visual language, we knew the spirit, we knew the ideas, we knew the reference points
 Yeah, that’s the thing, man. That’s what separates us from a lot of folk, and not because we’re better but because we’ve dedicated to listen to that inner voice, and a lot of people don’t. A lot of people go “man!” they do something and they go “shit you know what, and I’m totally not da-da-da-da [fill in the blanks].” People fail a lot of times doing that. Whereas we just trained ourselves to say “you know what, let me entertain this idea” and exhaust all the possibilities to make sure that it doesn’t make sense because something good may come out of that and for every time that someone has ever told you no, you’ve always had that willingness to explore it. Um, and I’ve watched that by the way, it’s been cool to see. How are you enjoying that…
 - Enjoying what?
 I’m thinking of a way to put it…How are you enjoying this whole fame thing?
 [gasp] 
You know its just a process of separating things, it’s understanding how to exploit it to display things, it’s understanding how to exploit it to display amazing art.
 
You know the whole trick is that I am a visual artist. To this day I can’t play piano. I’ve taken it up a couple of times and I forget how to play the piano.
 And when I first wanted to rap, before I rapped, the first thing I did was actually draw my tape covers because that’s back when people had tapes. 
I drew the cover before I even thought about doing music.
 Let’s put this information in Vegas to music. So ina  way I’ll get the music but it was always about the fountain. It was always about the light show. It was always about the fashion show, it was always about that. Whether it is the font that we pick for a single cover, or a video – I’m going to Qatar later tonight to shoot the film for “Cruel Summer,” which is basically my second pop fairytale, [Kanye West]
Why are you so Paranoid?
Don't be so Paranoid
[Big Sean; Verse 1]
Aye, Aye
Now baby I can tell you want more cause you put less out
And every time you stepped in I could tell you stepped out
Your girlfriend said I remind her of the rest, yea
But tell yo girlfriend that she remind me of the Press
Just talkin' and talkin'
So maybe we can sneak to the back then
I know you heard about the freaks that was back then
So last week, we so right now
They so hyped up man tell 'em pipe down
And you can tell from the watch and chain
They been in and out my jeans like pocket change
Just be real, man I wouldn't be real
If I ain't have my fair share like the stock exchange
And if today tend from your past relations
Walk around witcho girl sayin that you hate men 
(What?)
Aye yo you either let go or you go lesbo turn around and date them
So maybe we should head to the exit
Just is from your friends not to mess with (Who me?)
Cause they caught a case with they ex-es
They mad you'd a leave while a nigga ex-stressed
But we know what it is right?
So we gone let 'em live right?
You know why they call me Big right?
Tell 'em look left while we get right
(right, right, right)
[Mr. Hudson; Hook]
Anyway, they don't know you like I do
They'll never know you anyway
They don't know you like I do
They'll never know you
[Kanye West: Verse 2]
All of the time
You wanna complain about the nights that are long
So now you here with me stressing about it too
Leave that attitude way back at home
Yea you see 'em look dirty
Let 'em give you cold looks cause we look cold
Yea you heard about all the word of mouth
Don't worry about what we can't control
All the talk and the world lost in the world
Can you finally let that thing go
You wanna check into the heartbreak hotel but sorry we're closed
Baby, Don't worry about it
Baby, we'll go out to the floor
[Hook]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
Baby don't worry about it
Lady don't even think about it
You worry bout the wrong things, the wrong thing
You worry bout the wrong thing, the wrong thing
You worry bout the wrong thing, the wrong thing
You worry bout the wrong thing
[Hook]


Announced today, Kanye West‘s creative house DONDA enters into partnership with Roc Nation to manage all DONDA Music
The partnership will focus on Mr. West’s international recording brand and worldwide touring ventures
A multi-discipline design and content company, DONDA saw its early beginnings seeded by the 2009 footwear collaboration with fashion house Louis Vuitton.
 That collaboration spurred demand for Mr. West’s design sensibilities with fashion and apparel brands around the globe, 
including Nike and Adidas.
 DONDA continues its influence in the world of apparel: 
two versions of the Nike AIR YEEZY – each of which has sold out worldwide in just minutes
 – two celebrated capsule lines with Parisian brand A.P.C. – also instantly sold-out – and the highly-anticipated new line with Adidas, slated to debut this fall
Mr. West officially branded DONDA in 2011 with the groundbreaking packaging and tour design for Watch The Throne
. 
The following year, DONDA conceptualized and introduced an immersive new way to experience cinema: the 7-Screen Surround Vision experience in Cannes, France. The short film Cruel Summer, a visual companion to the G.O.O.D. Music album of the same name, employed the new techniques in both filming and viewing.
 In 2013, DONDA oversaw the concept and design for Mr. West’s minimalist YEEZUS album packaging and groundbreaking global launch, including a guerilla-marketing campaign, the “New Slaves” projections. DONDA is at the center of concept, design and production of Mr. West’s lauded concert experience, the YEEZUS TOUR. DONDA has designed and produced album packaging, staging, music videos and content for Lil Wayne, 2 Chainz, Big Sean, Pusha T and more
Founded in 2008, Roc Nation is a full-service entertainment company, inclusive of artist, songwriter, producer and engineer management; music publishing; touring & merchandising; film & television; new business ventures; and a music label. It is home to a diverse roster comprised of critically acclaimed recording artists, writers and producers including Rihanna, Shakira, Rita Ora, J. Cole, Timbaland, etc. Roc Nation has a partnership with global management company, Three Six Zero. Over the past several years, Roc Nation has been responsible a state-of-the-art recording and distribution deal with the Universal Music Group for JAY Z, Rihanna, and others; Rihanna’s rise as a huge global touring brand; 
and the launch of the Roc Nation Sports agency, which in its first year has built a roster of such all-star talent as Robinson Cano, Kevin Durant, Victor Cruz and more


[Intro]
Wise man say, wise man say
Wise man say
You'll never figure out real love
Never figure out real love
You'll never figure out real love
[Verse 1]
It's so crazy, crazy-crazy
I got everything figured out
But for some reason I can never find what real love is about
No doubt
Everything in the world figured out
But I can never seem to find what real love was about
Do you think I sacrifice, real life
For all the fame, and flashing lights
Do you think I sacrifice, a real life
For all the fame, and flashing lights
There is no Gucci I can buy
There is no Louis Vuitton to put on
There is no Y.S.L. that they could sell
To get my heart, out of this hell
And my mind, out of this jail
There is no clothes that I could buy
That could turn, back in time
There is no vacation spot I could fly
That could bring back, a piece of real life
Real life, what does it feel like?
I ask you tonight, I ask you tonight
What does it feel like, I ask you tonight
To live a real life
I just wanna be a real boy
They always say "Kanye, he keeps it real boy"
Pinocchio's story is, I just wanna be a real boy
Pinocchio's story goes, to be a real boy
[Verse 2]
It's funny
Pinocchio, lied, and that's what kept him from it
I tell the truth, and I keep running
It's like I'm lookin for something out there, tryna find something
I turn on the TV, and see me, and see nothing
What does it feel like, to live real life, to be real
Not some facade on TV that no one can really feel
Do you really have the stamina?
For everybody that sees you that say, "Where's my camera?"
For everybody that sees you, to say sign a autograph
For everybody that sees you cryin, say you oughta laugh
You oughta laugh!?
I just wanna be a real boy
Pinocchio's story goes, I just wanna be a real boy
Pinocchio's story goes
[Verse 3]
And there is no Gepetto, to guide me
No one, right beside me
The only one, was behind me
I can't find her no more, I can't follow no more
I can't..
The only one that come out on the tour and stays
Back when I was livin at home and this was all a big dream
And the fame will be get got
And the day I moved to L.A., maybe that was all my fault
All my fault to be a real boy, chasin the American dream
Chasin everything we seen, up on the TV screen
And when uh, the Benz was left, and the clothes was left
And the hoes was left, you talk the hoes to death
Thinkin' the money that the-
You spend the dough to death
And tell me what be left, for a real boy!
They say "Kanye, you keep it too real boy"
Perspective, and wise man say
One day, you'll find your way
The wise man say, you'll find your way
The wise man say, you'll find your way
Wise man say



like how “Runaway” was – it creates that kind of opportunity. When you see me design, and I’m not saying it’s the best design or whatever, but you know, [in “Runaway”] I had my idea of how I wanted Selita [Ebanks] to look, and I wanted it to be Selita
. I wanted to juxtapose minimalist, Vanessa Beecroft like high art against unrealistic Victoria Secret-level beauty.  They don’t crash, those words are not in the same place. You’ve been to art parties before? It’s different from a Victoria Secret’s party. You know what I’m talking about!
 Right!
 That’s right. Due to exposure, I’m able to have these things be seen by so many people. 
If Matthew Barney were more famous, then more people would see what Matthew Barney did.
 So it’s that. When it comes down to it, what I enjoy about it is the opportunity to express art in high volume, literally
 Did you know that you’re a synesthete? That you have synesthesia?
 That’s what it’s called, that’s what the film is about! You’re talking about seeing sounds right?
 There are many different forms of synesthesia. There are grapheme synethetes, people who see colors in numbers, letters in colours. But I believe most musicians and most artists are synesthetes
 You know that’s what this film in Qatar is about!
 Oh wow!
 
It’s called 
 and it’s basically the G.O.O.D Music Lamborghini Dons.
 [Kid] Cudi, he’s the main character and I’m just this boy, and in the beginning we’re car thieves. There’s this part where one character teaches another to see colours through sound
 Oh wow!
 
Yeah, the shit is dope. Matter of fact, if we could do work with you on the soundtrack. I mean I’ve got eight tracks for it, I just want to give it twelve. Basically it’s the G.O.O.D Music soundtrack that “Mercy” is the first single for.
 You’re like next level with this type of shit like [sings] “Take me far away, as long as it’s fun, fun, fun, I wanna go.” I’m talking to actually a film scorer at this point so –
 No! But dude….Nah man! It’s funny that you picked that out [“Fun, Fun Fun”]. That’s funny, wow!
 
I play that song real normal in the car
 No way?!
 Yeah!
 That’s crazy, that’s crazy. ‘Aight well say no more. I’mma holla at you soon. And you have a good time out there in Qatar. My man!
 Alright, thanks! Love


[Intro: Kanye West]
Bang. Let it bang. Yeah, let it bang. Uh uh uh yeah. Hey uh
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I ain't tryin' to stress my wealth
But sometimes I gotta American Express myself
When the pastor asked me why I'm flashy
Well, sometimes I gotta bless myself
I see you shining, shining like a mirror ball
Why when we're abroad we don't never hear of y'all?
You local retard, I'm the king of the world
So the king of your city by default
Niggas pullin' out cash in wads
My pants kinda tight, only fit, a credit card
But please don't get to spazzin' on 'em
Really Doe got a different type of plastic on him
And all my niggas, is big tippers
Why? A little rain never hurt no strippers
And it ain't like I can't get along with you
But I need you to get along while I get richer
Speakin' of richer you talkin' bout prior
Let's talk about now and the future which I am
All star ah, Super Bowl shuffle
Suicide door ah, big world tour ah
I am the menorah of this new era
And uh, you are?, dawg, whatever
Got to excuse the cockiness
But only an asshole can give you this much shit
[Hook: Really Doe]
Don't make me swipe my card
Nigga quit playin' before I swipe my card
I know you star, stuntin' for these broads
Nigga don't make me swipe my card
Peep the ice game
What the fuck? Are you a retard?
Nigga quit playin' before I swipe my card
Nigga don't make me swipe my card
[Verse 2: Really Doe]
It's no fair he's not
No nigga bring the thunder
Make your account look like social security numbers
I fast yesterday, now you feel my hunger
Why you grillin' the Hummer?
Can it be yours, you wonder
I'm on top and you're so far under
Dodgin piranha's swimmin' with them fish
Chicken, Salmon, yeah my favorite dish
Mess the kitchen up and I don't have to touch a dish
I suggest you disperse, take a guest list
Henny, Remy, bottles of Cris
Miss, do you know who in this bitch?
Handle that, I swung my wrist
Look my name up, find me in the Ritz
That's cause I'm stuntin' with more labels than cars on All Star Weekend
Awe baby we ballin', glasses over here are kinda low
Don't stall
[Hook: Really Doe]
[Outro: Really Doe]
Man, just so you niggas don't get it confused
I ain't talkin' about lean cards either
It's got to have one of these logos: American Express, Master, Visa


[Verse 1: Lil Wayne]
Um, She said can fuck me right, I made her fuck her friend
She say don’t call her a dike, well thats gay
Haha, I met her on Monday and fucked her all week
Cause every time she leave she come back to the tree
She know I love brain so I treat her like a geek
She love the way I spit so I made the pussy gleek
Wylin' wit my niggas, and I don’t give a fuck
So I circle the bitches, we roundin' them up
I treat her like I need her, Im knowin' if I eat her
She gon' tell Quieta, and Quieta like the media
Woopty woo to the bloods, her lipstick match my flag
 thats swag
Weezy F Baby
 
got nuts that drag
I put em' in your mouth till you choke and gag
I poke her face off and now she faceless
I poke her so much I deserve a bracelet
Young Money!
I poke her face off and now she faceless
And I just gave “Poker Face” a facelift
[Verse 2: Jae Millz]
Chi Town girl,
 
bag match her heels
Her ass hella fake, but it feel real
And it felt great when we had sex
I tore her out the frame, with pics of my ex
From my aspect, I love your assets
I love your mini skirt, that's easy access
Pipe game, never mediocre
So that relationship is over, once I poke her
She said she wanted a tour of the tour bus
So I gave her a tour of the tour bus
It was all us, on the tour bus
And she did all us, on the tour bus
Like
Hahaha


React how you want. Any energy you got is good energy
. 
You know, the Confederate flag represented slavery
. That’s my abstract take on what I know about it.
So I made the song “
New Slaves.
” So I took the Confederate flag and made it my flag. 
It’s my flag now
, now whatchu gonna do?
[...]
It looks cool. I like at maybe 800 images a day. You know, I’ve been working on clothing seriously for the past 11 years.
It’s colorless also. 
It’s super, like, hood and super white-boy-approved at the same time.
 And that’s really what my style’s always been, because I lived in the suburbs, where, you know, I was known as the Black kid, and I lived in the hood where I was known as the kid who spent his summers in the suburbs.
My dad was a military brat, and he would be around white people back then when it was like, racism was really popular and people would be racist against him, and he’d get around Black people and they’d kinda discriminate against him because they’d say he acted ‘white’ or talked ‘white.’ So there are times when I’ll talk and you’ll hear some of that white--or what people call ‘white’--the suburb voice come through and it’s times you’ll hear some of that Chicago come through. I’m influenced by all those things.
I lived in China when I was in fifth grade
 with my mother, she’s an English professor, and she taught high-level English. 
And it was my hint at being a celebrity because they hadn’t seen Black people on TV, so people would stare at me all the time.
[...]
There will never be another Backstreet Boys, Not in this day and age. It’s gonna be artists like 
Lorde
, singer songwriters, that are gonna come up. This is Instagram, this is the information highway. And I talk to these heads, you know, these older dudes that run companies, and it’s hilarious to me! 
I only listen to people who are younger than me
! These are the only people with ideas. You cannot give me any advice! 
You can help me.
 
You can support Donda. You can cut a check.
 But I have the ideas! No one older than me has a better idea than me because I’m the only 36 year old me! I’m the most relevant voice on the planet Earth, at age 36, post being the most hated. So don’t try to tell me anything! Help me! Help me, help other people.
[
]
We are uncomfortable. 
500 kids are dying in Chicago a year
. We are uncomfortable. 
Just because we’re being a gated community doesn’t mean that things are comfortable.
The thing is, we have the resources on this planet to have a human utopia, to have respect for each other, mankind. We have that. 
But we’re too concerned about getting the next Hollywood film on Netflix.
 We have the resources. 
There’s new billionaires everyday
. You apply the right type of thinkers, like the 
Elon Musks
, the people with the real ideas.
Like, politics is dead. It’s over with.
 These kids need some type of real truth.


[Produced by Kanye West & Mad Rapper]
[Intro]
To My nigga
Who brought me in this world
Ha, that's right nigga
[Verse 1]
My old dad important to the family structure
A provider A God
My moms a queen, that universal team civalized us
My pops maybe was late but always came home
My moms would put us to bed and she would wait on
Soon as he walk in the door she barking
I turned down the Johnny Carson
Jumped out the bed
We grabbed both his legs
Me and my brother
Not knowing the pain he gave my mother
Night after night, fighting yelling at each other
My papa played the street all day
Mama was either home, at work, while we played inside the hall way
She sacrifices all she got to feed us
When she was alone she cried by the phone peeping out the window heated
But still I didn't see it
Mama hid it from us
We was kids younger
Till we got bigger, on to
Bigger things that we knew what the time was
That daddy was leaving his crib and mom's love
[Hook x2]
Papa was player, player wasn't papa
Papa loved the ladies
Never got enough of
Pretty brown round
Running round town (Shhhhh)
Don't tell your mother what's going down
[Verse 2]
So many kids I knew, never knew who Pap was
That's why I show my pop love
He was still around when I popped up
He could have left
My moms pregnant shook to death but stayed
Watch me crawl till I took my first step, to the first grade
To my first fist fight
Right behind me he would stand
No matter how big or tall he made me fight you like a man
Throw dirt in your eye, swing my right scoop your ass and slam
He watched me so I wouldn't get jumped by shorty's fam
Roaches and weed all over my crib
, 
him and mom's relaxing
Next thing you know he packing
, so then I asked him
What's this white shit on that plate and your facing?
Papa why you butt ass from the waist
And who's this lady I'm facing
Dark skin you're not my mommy
He grabbed me up to run some smooth words by me
Promise things that he would buy me
If I kept my mouth closed and don't tell mommy
He said one day I'll understand little me
What's in you is inside me
[Hook x2]
[Verse 3]
Pop's told me hold my own
Pop's told me value home
Could I help it papa was a rolling stone
Who loved the pretty brown round
Out of town bound
Trumpet in his jazz band, he touring
At home I play his latest recordings
And it's strange now how, I do my thing now
I'm in the game now
Inherited his brainpower
To pull strings and gain power
From weed habits are same now
No white lines to trumpets to tight rhymes
And beats that be pumping
Before he left he taught me something
A child's young years the most important time to be there
That's why he stayed 'til we grew up, respect is still here
I'm older now see what having a father's about
One day they can be in your life, next day they be out
It's not because of you, you know the deal
Him and your moms feel
If they stay together then someone will get killed
I love you still, always will
Cause that's my nigga
Although you felt you was wrong
I still feel you kid
Life goes on


[Intro: 
]
Woman: She really thought that
Kanye: Yeah
Woman: Yeah. She’s so paranoid
Kanye: Yeah, that’s good, paranoid
Why are you so paranoid
Don't be so paranoid
Don't be so
Baby, don't worry about it
Lady, don't even think about it
You worry bout the wrong things, the wrong things
You worry bout the wrong things, the wrong things
You worry bout the wrong things, the wrong things
You worry bout the wrong things, the wrong things
[Verse 1]
Tell me right now
You really wanna spend your whole life alone?
A little time out might do you good, might do us good
Before we be done for good
Cause I could make it good I could make it hood
I can make you come I can make you go
I can make you high I can make you fly
Make you touch the sky hey maybe so
All of the time
You be up in mine checking through my cell phone baby no
You wanna kill the vibe on another night
Here's another fight oh here we go
[Hook]
Baby don't worry about it
Lady we'll go out to the floor
Anyway they don't know you like I do
They'll never know you
Anyway they don't know you like I do
They'll never know you
[Verse 2]
All of the time
You wanna complain about the nights alone
So now you're here with me
Show some gratitude leave the attitude way back at home
Yea you see em look
Baby let em look give us cold looks cause we look cold
Yea you heard about all the word of mouth
Don't worry about what we can't control
All the talk in the world
 
lost in the world
Till you finally let that thing go
You wanna check in to the heartbreak hotel
But sorry we're closed
[Hook]
[Kanye 
]
Baby don't worry about it
Lady don't even think about it
You worry bout the wrong things, the wrong thing
You worry bout the wrong thing, the wrong thing
You worry bout the wrong thing, the wrong thing
You worry bout the wrong thing
[Hook]


[Intro/Hook: repeat 2X]
And we gon' stay hustlin on that block until we caught
And we gon' stay showin off that jewelry that we bought
And we gon' stay leavin out the stores with heavy bags
Cause we be poppin tags, pimpin we be poppin tags!
[Verse One: Jay-Z]
We arose, let's go
So fresh, so clean like 'Kast
Jay-Z be poppin tags
Leavin the mall with heavy bags
You know the boy got a love for the cash
Aw fuck, there he go again
Talkin bout hoes and dough again
Yup! -- Can't hold it in
I'm surprised I got so much dough to spend
But, back when I was poorer then
You wasn't focusin, about the dough I spend
But I was holdin in, I was a roller then
I was a baller back then, all of that man
Fall back, I fought that
What would you do if you was in my shoes?
Leave dudes in the rearview
V-12 engine, corners spinnin
Twinkies shinin, pinky ring
Armadale, nigga stinky stink
Top, down, my cash is up
Gold chain, I don't give a fuck
Gold brain'll get you in the truck ma
That's right, you in luck ma
You see me cruisin down, better step inside
Ain't enough room to fit you all in the ride
First come, first served basis
You know Hov' be goin to nice places
That's right, and I'm droppin cash
Leave the mall with garbage bags
Gucci this, Prada that
Roll witcha boy you'll be poppin tags
[Hook]
[Verse Two: Twista]
It's a party when I go up in the sto'
Shoppin while I'm zooted off the dro'
Rollin like a nigga that just came up on a mill'
And I got 'em sweepin and pickin up tags off the flo'
Bag full of clothes, I remember havin rocks in the hall
On the corner with the Glock by the balls
Servin up a jab and workin security 6 to 6
Then it's straight from the block to the mall
Buy what's on the wall
Go ahead and treat yo'self
When you come up on some cheddar better pop that tag
Like when I dip off in the Prada then I go off
To the lot and lay the paper down and cop that Jag
I got a closet full of ammunition and funds
Mink, Roc-a-Wear and some guns
Pelle and a fresh pair of Jordan’s
Dro packs and “Bo Jack’s” and Air Max’s; throwbacks and “1’s”
No max for none
(When I go up in the sto' a nigga never get enough)
I'm a baller and if you want it come and get it now
(Nigga come to a race with a car you won't catch up)
And the Twista kinda wicked when I spit it now
I be choppin up cheddar with Kanye
Chop a little cheddar up with Jay
Chop it up with the O-to-the-Kizay
Poppin big tags with the flow and the dough, we get bi-zay!
[Hook]
[Verse Three: Killer Mike]
Uh-huh, whattup? Tell you somethin bout me..
My throwback game is whiffle wicked
Saint Patties day, green pinstripe
, 
number 20 Mark Spitz'n
Jersey ooh-wee with the matchin New Era fitted
White boys say my style is bitchin
Keepin coke in the kitchen
Keep a Glock that will shock and bring the rest
Tucked underneath my Mitchell & Ness
(HA!) Scramblin', handlin' with a .45 cannon
It's tucked in my Marc Buchanan
Extra clips and shells in the lambskin
Two deep by Pelle Pelle
Westside how they felly fell
More G's on me, than a late 80's Gucci leather
Worn by the great Rakim himself
Stitch my Dapper Dan
, oh man with the gun in hand
I leave your blood squirting
No offense, I'll put your face on the chest
Of a sweatshirt drawn by Shirt Kings
I been fucking, a hustle, married to a racket
Since the first Air Jordan's and Starter jackets
I slept with a package, under mattress
I carry guns heavy speak easy, slight with the fight words
I'll put somethin hot through your motherfuckin Iceberg
Got a project chica, named Rica
She keep a purse full of dro' reefer
Small, pinkies like that
Talk 'til the paper fat
I rock somethin, roll chief +Sacks+ like Daddy Fat!
[Hook]
[Verse Four: Big Boi]
Pop tags in reverse, you'll be needin a nurse
Leave you layin on your back in a Cadillac hearse
Now your momma in all black with a matchin purse
I know you wanna blow up, but a funeral hurts
What's worse, you can hit the mall and ball 'til you fall
Have to make a collect call, but your cell cut off
Trot to the mailbox expectin a check but the mail's run short
No more MD, DD, LD
That means Movie Date, Dinner Date, Lunch Date, help me please
My sheets is gone
Long bread to the short bread, word is bond
Meticulously pimpously serve the song
Act a damn donkey
Like the pilgrims when they popped a tag on the indians home
Drop top rag-o with the weed gone
Chillin, bags in the trunk full of FAO Schwartz for the chill'uns
Spent a few shillings
Sip a few chickens, lick a few kittens, just kiddin
A fresh bowl of milk is in the fridge and
Can you pop the tags on the honeycombs
Or are you actin mad cause the money done
Slowed, down, just a little bit
Dipped, poked out, did some shull-bit
Actin like a pitfall bull-pit
Dead game is the pul-pit
Leave a motherpumper with his John Doe toe tag clipped
Imperial classic, a lyrical thrashin
A miracle happenin
Jay-Z, Killer Mike and Big Boi rappin and rhymin and smabbin
Pop that tag on some of this game
Holla-tic, swallow and keep the change
[Hook]


[Hook: Twista]
And we gone stay hustling on the block until we caught
And we gone stay showing off that jewelry that we bought
And we gone stay heated in case it's in and out of court
Cause we some gangstas, I don't know what the fuck you thought
[Verse One: Ludacris]
Sometimes I think that I gotta see a little bit of brighter days
Cause I confine myself to a city near you in a solid cage
And you could look to the left and the right, but I'm trapped on center stage
And I could rap to the beat, but I don't know how to change my wage
I still hear a pull and I track 'em, and strack 'em, and whack 'em
Jack a nigga for the day to days and I yak 'em, attack 'em, and sack 'em
Get a weapon and I crack his brain cause I'm hustler, baller, pro
And it wouldn't be right for me to be around busters, and crawlers, and hoes
But I'm a pimp at night so talk shit and I'm gonna lift 'em up off of their toes
With a street sweeper regulating quarters, and ki's, and o's
In the two seater, Ludacris and Twista with bags of 'dro
Smoking and choking, get 'em up and croaking
It's so potent, I'm hoping to keep on floating
Soaking wet and you can bet, people I'm high
I'm seeing lions, and tigers and bears - oh my!
And I can't hide it and keep it hidden, good riddance of feeling good
I'm weapon-concealing, stealing my neighborhood
Would, could, and should break a nigga off
They'll see you later, go to the doctor, hold my balls and (cough)
Because the vapors and I caught the drawn, brain blown, honey I'm home
Give me the microphone, and fools is like, "leave me alone!"
[Hook]
[Verse Two: Twista]
Throw it up if you get high, get blowed, get drunk
If you on what I'm on come on and kick it, let's ride, smoke 'dro, beat the trunk
All the bad ass bitches that want to party, just shake it, great players get pumped
Me and my thugs and hustlers in the party, get money, fuck hoes, get crunk
(Look out) Put a little bit of hash and some motherfucking purple haze
I feel it all over my body, adrenaline with the Bacardi
Got me up and then ripping shit in a rage
In the netti confetti with a belly, gucci
Timberland stepping on the pedal up in the 'lac truck
Want to get me for the wood
Better get the whole motherfucking 'hood to come and give you some back up
We can get into it and if you want to do it
I'm leaking the fluids out of the bodies that want to come at this
If they ever got some blood for fucking with thugs that I bury
My adversaries better not want none of Twis'
Represent for the city, anybody that different with me
Got into thinking its a game
And whether you in my city and I talk shit
I'm going to kill him, especially if he say my name
I've been known to handle my business
Or I'm gonna stick him up for the scrilla, from K-Tilla, smoking on a fat pilla
Murder haters that I'm full of
Niggas claiming they wanna bring a baretta they'll be killas
Balling out so hard the size of my rims grows to a hellafied sight-scene
When the dough become no bigger, I'm gonna still drop that 2003
(Throw it up if you...)
[Hook] - 2X


Yo, we made this joint, we was like, "We gotta get Preemo to scratch on this shit, seriously."
 
Cause, that's one of my idols, just a legend in the game, a living legend.
 
And then, plus, he, he like porn a lot, so I relate to him with that, you know.
 
And he been to the AVN's, you know.
 
I been to the Grammy's,
 he been to the AVN's, you know. I'm, and, actu- I'm envious of him, cause Rick Rubin, he actually asked me to go to the AVN's, and I was like, 
"Man, I can't do it. I just made 'Jesus Walks'.
 
They gon' see me, and they gon' take away my NAACP award."
 
So I was, uh, you know, I have to watch pornos in the privacy of my own home, you know?
 I really want to go AVN's, but, you know, 
I can't do it, cause they'll take me off the cover of 
,
 and then what? 
Now I won't make it on the cover of 
.
 
But one day, one day I'll be there.
 
I'ma have one on of them BAPE hoodies zipped-up with the eyes cut out and some,
 
some gloves with the fingers cut off so I could feel, too, so I could touch
. 
You know they let celebrities touch. That's how it be whenever you go to the strip club
, 
"No touching!
  
Except for you, 'Ye, you can do whatever you want."


[Produced by Andrew Dawson, Jeff Bhasker, Kanye West, Mike Dean & S1]
[Verse 1]
I’m living in that 21st Century, doing something mean to it
Do it better than anybody you ever seen do it
Screams from the haters, got a nice ring to it
I guess every superhero need his theme music
No one man should have all that power
The clock’s ticking, I just count the hours
Stop tripping, I’m tripping off the power
 
(21st-Century schizoid man)
The system broken, the school is closed, the prison's open
We ain’t got nothing to lose, motherfucker we rolling
Huh?
 
Motherfucker we rolling
With some light-skinned girls and some Kelly Rowlands
In this white man world, we the ones chosen
So goodnight, cruel world, I’ll see you in the morning
Huh?
 
I’ll see you in the morning
This is way too much, I need a moment
[Hook]
No one man should have all that power
The clock’s ticking, I just count the hours
Stop tripping, I’m tripping off the power
Till then, fuck that, the world’s ours
And they say
(21st-Century schizoid man)
[Verse 2]
Fuck SNL and the whole cast
Tell them Yeezy said they can kiss my whole ass
More specifically they can kiss my asshole
I’m an asshole? You niggas got jokes
You short-minded niggas thoughts is Napoleon
My furs is Mongolian, my ice brought the goalies in
And I embody every characteristic of the egotistic
He knows, he’s so fucking gifted
I just needed time alone with my own thoughts
Got treasures in my mind but couldn’t open up my own vault
My childlike creativity, purity and honesty
Is honestly being crowded by these grown thoughts
Reality is catching up with me
Taking my inner child, I’m fighting for custody
With these responsibilities that they entrusted me
As I look down at my diamond encrusted piece
Thinking
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Colin Powells, Austin Powers
Lost in translation with a whole fucking nation
They say I was the abomination of Obama’s nation
Well that’s a pretty bad way to start the conversation
At the end of the day, god damn it I’m killing this shit
I know damn well y’all feeling this shit
I don’t need your pussy, bitch, I’m on my own dick
I ain’t gotta power trip, who you going home with?
How Ye doing? I’m surviving
I was drinking earlier, now I’m driving
Where the bad bitches,
 
huh?
 
Where you hiding?
I got the power to make your life so exciting
[Outro]
Now this will be a beautiful death
(I’m jumping out the window, I’m letting everything go)
You got the power to let power go?
(21st-Century schizoid man)


Raf Simons is the future. Still the future. The 40-year-old Belgian designer has long been the headlight for radical menswear. Throughout the '90s and '00s, his eponymous label showed how innovative design can embrace new technologies and fabrics and rethink traditional structures. In 2005, Simons turned from rogue independent to the man behind a megabrand, taking the reins of the men's and women's lines at Jil Sander. That label has always been known for its clean, utilitarian silhouettes, a precision that seems to particularly suit Simons, who, for the Fall 2008 womenswear collection, put the tailors on the dresses and the dressmakers on the tailoring. It was Simons way of again unsettling how we think of clothes
Simons has many fans well beyond the closed doors of high fashion. 
Take Kanye West, the hip-hop superstar who has pretty much restyled the music world over the past few years
. He's never hidden his interest in fashion. 
When West went looking for inspiration in developing his upcoming sportswear line, Pastelle
, he had the good sense to check out Simons. Their upbringings couldn't have been more different, but Simons and West are both fearless individualists. Here they talk about style, music, and why it's good to be the outsider on the playground. We started off asking them what they were like as children
RAF SIMONS: I was born in this very small village in Belgium. It wasn't really a creative environment. In school, creating was kept away from young people. The village was so small there was no outlet except for one little record store. I think that is where it started for me-just picking up records. I'm 40 years old, so it was LPs. The first LP I ever bought—you're going to be shocked—was Bob Marley. Then I switched to Kraftwerk, Joy Division, and that kind of stuff. I was a bit dark at that time because I felt so isolated. But not only me, there were some other young people who felt that way. 
We loved to dress in black.
 I was growing up in the New Wave period, but that wasn't allowed in school. I remember moments when they wouldn't let four people dressed in black stand together on the playground. Then, before I graduated, I remember finding this book, and there was one page about industrial design. Basically, I ended up going to school for that. At that time there was a big boom going on with fashion in Belgium. The more I looked, the more I became interested. Before that I never even thought to become a fashion designer or anything like that. I started feeling that work when I was 19 years old, but I didn't do my first collection until I was 27. I wanted to finish my education in industrial design first. My parents are very holy to me. They never said, "You should do this," or "You should do that." My dad had to go in the army when he was 16, and he stayed there. My mom was a cleaning lady her whole life. The only thing they said to me was: "Take it seriously. Do what you what you believe in, but take it seriously." So the fourth year, I had to go for an internship. I went to Walter Van Beirendonck. I knocked on his door, and I was super scared-because I had nothing to do with fashion. But he was interested. He had absolutely zero interest in all of the fashion work I had faked to impress him. He just went straight to my industrial-design stuff. He said, "I really want you to come because, next to the fact that I am a fashion designer, I have this presentation in Paris and objects to make. I'm not a traditional designer." I ended up doing that with him, and he took me to Paris, and I saw my first show, which was the third show for Martin Margiela. Nothing else in fashion has had such a big impact on me. It was a show where half the audience cried, including myself. I was just like, "What! This is fashion?" Only at that point did I understand what fashion could be or what it could mean to people. It was the "white" show, where all the models wore dresses in white and transparent plastic. Margiela had no money at the time, so the Maison ended up going to a black neighborhood in Paris and asking if they could use a children's playground for the show. The parents said, "Yes, you can have the playground, but we want our children to be able to see it." So little black children were standing with the audience in the front row. The children started to run over to the models, and they picked them up and held them around their necks
KANYE WEST: 
For me, I realized the psychology behind having Jordans growing up—what it meant culturally, or what it meant to be a child just trying to fit in.
 When my parents divorced, my mother moved to Chicago, and my father stayed in Maryland. My mother lived in an all-black neighborhood. My father lived in an all-white neighborhood. When I got to Maryland, I had to adjust to a more affluent neighborhood than what I was used to in Chicago. Then when I went back to Chicago, I had to readjust to that. Then my mother and I moved to China for a year when I was in fifth grade. I had to adjust to a place where there was nobody my age, not to mention any black kids out there. Those were scary situations, but it made me able to open up my mind to other cultures and be accepting. And that is the greatest blessing, to have those experiences, because I can adapt to other cultures and still be who I am. 
So you see, with my style, there is a bit of Paris and a bit of Japan and a bit of the suburbs
. 
A lot of people's style looks very specific to one region
RS: That's very good. Having your feet in the middle, you can see everything very differently. I think it's beyond fantastic, actually. Dress codes and gestures and attitudes have always inspired me, as has youth culture in general, although now I question it more. If you analyze youth cultures over history, there has always been something strict about them-you have to be like this or like that. 
I'm actually surprised that in the 21st century, it can still be so present: They are still environments with walls around them
KW: What I've noticed in the last few months, especially since my mom passed, is that everything is a cult. I don't mean cult in a bad way, just that everything's been cultivated for us. New ideas are the new roads, the dirt roads, that people have to pave. In order to go through the dirt roads, you have to get scratched with sticks, and you end up dirty if you have any new concepts. America is made not to have new concepts. It's there to live alongside strip malls and be beaten by mundaneness. Even hip-hop is: "You can't do this, you can't say that. These are the rules of hip-hop." One of my friends, Ludacris, wanted me to make a song called "Did It for Hip-Hop." On the song I was gonna talk about how I didn't do anything for hip-hop-I did it for myself. I did subscribe to the cult of hip-hop at one point, and I am very hip-hop because of it. But I have a lot of ideas that extend way further than the rules of hip-hop. In Japan you see guys that are dressed completely hip-hop, but they're completely nice also. They'll come up to you, looking like they'll rob you and instead they bow. I find a lot of similarities between myself and the Japanese, because sometimes they look at something from the outside, and take the best of what they like about it, and then they'll work extremely hard at pushing it to another level. They'll take a piece of Americana, like jeans, buy all the jean mills, and then be the master at those jeans. From a music standpoint, I stayed in Chicago, where there's no music industry, no outlets, nobody else that can make beats with me, not on the level of New York. Whereas in New York, everyone knew one another-you could be a small producer and sell a beat really quickly. So I would work on the beat so much that by the time I got to New York, the ones I was making were way better than anyone else's. They were like, "Damn! Your beats sound like they're completed songs!" Cause people would just do beats that were a sample, like a really basic idea. Then they'd have a keyboard player come in, a person who's a specialist at drums, and an engineer. And I'm doing all this in my room, right next to my mother, trying to beat five producers, taking the entire summer off, not getting a haircut, not getting any new shoes, cause I couldn't afford them—and it's like what Japanese people do: They see it and they end up doing it way better than the culture that made it. You once told me that if you didn't do fashion, you would have done psychology
RS: I like to find out things about people. I'm interested in them. But part of being a psychiatrist is also having to find out about people you don't have an interest in
KW: Right. That's the problem. Whenever you take a job that you think you're gonna love, there's gonna be situations like that, where you also have to work with people who you're not as interested in, until you get to the point where you're at the very top of your game and you can just be like, "No, I don't want to do this at all." Until then, you haven't reached your ultimate goal in life—a lot of people don't realize that the ultimate goal in life is to not have to do anything you don't want to do. Most people think the solution is to make a lot of money. The only problem is some people fall into the trap where money becomes the prison, and they end up having to do a bunch of things that they don't want to do for money to get that couple weeks of vacation where they feel like they're not doing anything they don't want to do. So, for me, I try to design my life like it's a big vacation every single day, every moment of my life. That's the goal. Like, I wouldn't rather be doing anything more right now than talking on the phone with Raf Simons, one of my idols and someone I've studied so much. I was in a Jil Sander store for an hour yesterday, looking at the collars and studying the way the marble print was put on the sweaters
RS: That means a lot to me, and that's also why I continue to do what I do. For me, I think that the 21st century almost doesn't allow the beauty of something really small and out of the spotlight. I deal now with two labels, my own, which is a very small label, and Jil, which is a very big, corporate business label. I see the difference, and every day I work there I think, What is now best for me?—because I like both very much. My own mentality is to make it small, like my own environment. In that sense I relate to what you were saying because I enjoy just working with my people every day. But our society doesn't allow that. Our society wants things to grow, and our society wants things to become bigger and bigger. Everything has to be put under the spotlight
KW: Where I came from in Chicago, we didn't have the term hip-hop. People didn't even know how to state the way I dressed or acted and what my mannerisms were. It's like how you said there were only a few people who dressed in black. I can't even think of one person in my school who dressed like me. There are new boxes and barriers that I'm breaking down every day. Coming from the hip-hop community, one of the things that you're never allowed to do is to speak about gay people unless you're disrespecting them. You couldn't be friends with gay people, you couldn't be in the car with them, you had to look at them in a completely different way, like they weren't even real people. I was working with my interior decorator, which was a big step for me because he was gay and I would have to ride in a car [with him] to go pick out fabrics and furniture. And I'd always think, What if a picture of me got shot and they put it on the Internet and they all said that's my boyfriend? Then in hip-hop, they would be like, "Oh, Kanye's gay, so we can't listen to his raps because he broke a rule of hip-hop."
RS: You break them, and you keep on breaking them, I would say
KW: Yeah. Now that I've broken that, I feel much freer that I can be creative and not deal with stereotypes. America beats stereotypes into people. Recently there was this whole Bonnaroo situation. 
I didn't realize that actual racism was still alive, because at a certain point, once you become famous, you're no longer black or white, you're just green-you're just money. So when you walk in any store there's a certain level of: "Oh, he's not a black guy. He's a famous guy now!"
 When I went to that Bonnaroo festival in Tennessee, they definitely reminded me that I was a black guy. On 12 port-a-potties they wrote in bold letters fuck kanye. They didn't allow my crew to load on the stage; the promoter allowed Pearl Jam to do three encores. The sun was starting to come up, and the whole point of my show was that it was glow in the dark. They bled my cryo tanks so I wouldn't have smoke. I felt so naïve, cause it clicked in my head: Oh, wow, this is really done on purpose
RS: Being popular, is it something you want?
KW: I wrestle with it every day, because you still have to figure out how to use it in a good way. It's like a girl being beautiful. It can be a gift or a curse. It's like you could be one step away from being Kurt Cobain. Or you could be like Ralph Lauren, where you take your influence and help paint the world. Basically, I work constantly on coming up with ideas to paint the world
RS: I wonder if you still find it necessary to dress a certain way when you perform. I'm just thinking back in time, when there were performers that constantly created revolutions. That's how it started for me, you know? The musicians I was interested in I liked even more because they were such amazing chameleons. You have people such as David Bowie. In a way, I could compare him to you. You are a 21st-century boy, you know? I mean, Bowie goes to Berlin, and 9,000 people go to his concert expecting him to look like Ziggy Stardust, and he looked like the Thin White Duke. If you're interested in popularity, it's also very clear in today's society, that that is the way to make yourself popular, because changing is ultimate freedom
KW: Well, that's who I am now. When I delivered the "Flashing Lights" video-where the girl was very, very voluptuous, as opposed to what was always on TV, and a very instantly-would-get-somebody's-dick-hard type girl-I'm like, "This is what I grew up on, and these are the type of girls that I like." And then I mixed it. I juxtaposed super-huge titties with Margiela shoulder pads, which had never been done, with a Ford Mustang in the middle of the desert. Then I juxtaposed voice-over rapping, where I'm not in the video at all, and then I get killed at the end-it's like, I don't give a fuck what people want from this record, this is the idea that I want to show. And then after that I went onstage and designed a stage show where I was the only person. I don't think I could have been in the place to really say, "Fuck what the ideas were before, what people expect of me," if I didn't have that situation with my mother, that great loss. Because when you suffer a big loss like I did, it's like, What else can you lose? The reason why people are always scared is they're afraid of losing whatever it is they have. And I think, in life, people want happiness, and they want a bit of their self-esteem back. People are so scared to lose their worldly possessions. So as an entertainer, am I gonna say something where I get so much backlash that I lose everything, that I lose the ability to sell records, that I lose the ability to keep a lifestyle? For me, I wouldn't care if I died broke. I wouldn't. I'd rather give my kids the same ability that I had, to hustle and to create their own way, than to leave them money
RS: So how are you going to solve that? [laughs]
KW: I just do exactly what I want to do, just like you do. Jil Sander-okay, I'll just give away one of my main ideas for my clothes. One of the bases for the finishes for my label is the lack of finishing. It should be theatrical. The fabrics should be great. But no gold zippers. I say "Jil Sander," like, about 25 times a day when I'm talking to my design team-
RS: I'm scared now, Kanye. [laughs] But I often have a worry in fashion that you can do it a different way only until a certain point, and then you'll just be kicked out. In fashion you try to change something, try to make people also think about what it is, and not just try to produce and produce and produce for business. Fashion as a creative art is always seen as something that is ahead, but only because it's so sped up. I think it will become only more and more complicated, along with all other creative outlets-
KW: I have this conversation all the time about the arts, how they are commercialized—especially rap music, at a certain point, when it got so big and there were, like, super-megastars who couldn't rap at all, and they were making so much money. At that point, that's when hip-hop started to die. That took it down a level. Like in Middle America, you're not allowed to have any art in your clothing. You can't be expressive, or people will start talking about you[Kanye West - Alternative Second Verse]
The brown hero,
 
live from Ground Zero
Machine gun flow, made of ghetto Ross Perot
And this is disestablishmen-tarianism
With my night goggles on, yeah, military vision
And it’s still a very Christian way to think about livin’
When you prayin’ for freedom ’cause your mind been in prison
‘Cause they tryin’ to control every single big decision
You ain’t effin’ the system, then why the eff is you livin’?
Look, dawg, you can cop whatever suits you on
Three-piece, cuff links and the accoutrements
They been feedin’ us ish without the nutrients
So I’m back with another hit to let the truth be known
And your boy still fresh with the Gucci on
Them Italians sure know how to make what the moulies want
And they really can’t take what dude be on
But I be on the same thing ’til you prove me wrong


[Keri Hilson]
I can do the pretty girl rock, rock
Rock to the pretty girl rock, rock, rock
Now what's your name
My name is Keri, I'm so very
Fly oh my it's a little bit scary
Boys wanna marry looking at my derriere
You can stare but if you touch it I'mma bury
Pretty as a picture
Sweeter than a Swisher
Mad cause I'm cuter than the girl that's with you
I ain't gotta talk about it baby, you can see it
But if you want I'll be happy to repeat it
My name is Keri, I'm so very
Fly oh my it's a little bit scary
Boys wanna marry lookin' at my derriere
You can stare but if you touch it I'mma bury
Pretty as a picture
Sweeter than a swisher
Mad cause I'm cuter than the girl that's with ya
I can talk about it cause I know that I'm pretty
And if you know it too then ladies sing it with me
All eyes on me when I walk in
No question that this girl's a 10
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful
My walk my talk the way I dress
It's not my fault so please don't trip
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
For the nigga they love to hate
But all the bad model girls they love to date
You need to check my swag and get up to date
Check check check my swag and get up to date
Cause when we cut, I'm razorbladin'
I'm so Lazer, I'm so Major
I'm so Flava, I'm so Flava, baby I should have a clock on
Why you get ya, get ya, get ya pretty girl rock on
For all my girls from Atlanta down to Stockholm
And they looking like what the hell you got on
What you mean baby girl, I got homes
Different cribs, new whips
And I'm feelin' fly, fly like a G6
Fly, my swag hit on ladies unknowingly
Please to meet ya, its a pleasure knowing me
Back when I was poor I used to pull em with my poetry
Tick that yes or no for me, I guarantee she go with me
But the only thing I need to know right now
What a pretty girl like you doing in this part of town
With a city girl swag and a country girl smile
I mean you demoralizing bitches with your style
Wow, well how about now
My jewelery so blow, my girls so wow
I mean, I mean swag so loud
I guess that's the reason all the concerts so owww
[Keri Hilson]
Aye, now do the pretty girl rock rock rock
Do the pretty girl rock rock rock
Do the pretty girl rock rock
All my ladies do the pretty girl rock rock rock
Do the pretty girl rock rock rock
Do the pretty girl rock rock
Do the pretty girl rock
Now where you at
If you're lookin' for me you can catch me
Cameras flashin', Daddy's turned his head as soon as I passed him
Girls think I'm conceited cause I know I'm attractive
Don't worry about what I think why don't you ask him
Get yourself together don't hate, never do it
Jealousy is the ugliest trait, don't ever do it
I can talk about it cause I know that I'm pretty
And if you know it too then ladies sing it with me
[Outro x2]
All eyes on me when I walk in
No question that this girl's a ten
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful
My walk my talk the way I dress
It's not my fault so please don't trip
Don't hate me cause I'm beautiful


[Intro: Miguel, Jadakiss, Yasiin Bey, DJ Khaled, & Busta Rhymes]
And even if she all about the money
I don't really care
, yeah
I got a lot of money
It's enough of it that we can share, share
[Verse 1: Fat Joe (Kanye West)]
Court side at the Knick game, who the don?
Plus I worked on your kick game, Louboutin
Birkin bags made of python
She a beautiful nightmare (Turn the lights on)
So I could see that ass
Word to Martin Louie, the king 
(She free at last)
(Word to my nigga Joe Crack, you let her hold some stacks)
Yeah, before we go to the club she wanna go to Saks
I let her get the gold card, I'mma hold the black
(I let her get the black card, I couldn't hold her back)
Cause back in the back yard she used to hold the crack
So I cut them other hoes off like the couldesac
[Hook: Roscoe Dash (Fat Joe)]
I ain't never felt a feelin' like this, I need some more (Now how cold is that?)
You gon' have to show me more, but you still my pride n joy
What's goin' on with me and you is real for sure
But you gon' have to show me more, but you still my pride n joy
You're still my pride n joy
[Verse 2: Fat Joe]
I ate dinner after, share with another, yo
She love women and she keeps it un
der cover, yo
And I love women, so she brings them under covers, yo
Fight then we fuck again
, 
I swear I really love her though
Don't wanna be a player, help her find another Joe
Just to prove I love her, I use rubbers on my other hoes
And if she ever find out it'd be another blow
And that only me that I'mma have to hit another store
Spend another knot,
 
hit another lot
That's how you know if you are in love or not
Bought her moms a whip on Mother's Day
Now I gotta get her the same whip her mother got
[Hook]
[Intro x4]


[Intro: Jay-Z]
We in the time of our lives, baby
Turn the music up, primetime
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Primetime, beat by Dion
Our third eon, that's what the fuck we on
Mo' money, 40-year old phenom
My 15 minutes of fame is stretched beyond
At 42, be better than 24s
I carry the 4-5,
 
mastered 48 laws
Still wearing my 23's, they can't fuck with the boy
Far as them 16's, I'm 23 of it all
Primetime, riding that 6 deuce
That 911, I only subtract the roof
Started in '88
, 
got warm in '92
I landed in '96, that's the year I came through
I hit the club, order some Grey Goose
Switched it for Ciroc to give Puff's stocks a boost
New money, I found the fountain of youth
I'm heading to Miami to fuck up the Fontaine Bleau
A case of Ace.. make it 2
Nigga we rollin', beat the deuce
The night is young, what the fuck we gon' do
[Hook: Kanye West]
The night is young, what the fuck you wanna do, huh?
The night is young, what the fuck we gon' do, huh?
The night is young, what you really wanna do, huh?
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Primetime, basking in the lime
Cassius in his prime,
 
coloring out of the line
Cause they don't want nobody that's colored out of the lines
So I'm late as a motherfucker, colored people time
Damn, Yeezy, it all gotta be dimes?
Well Adam gave up a rib, so mine better be prime
Niggas gonna kill me, I swear they better be lying
I never live in fear, I'm too out of my mind
Primetime, never hit these heights
I mean it's like, it's like our first first-class flight
I'm tripping on it,
 
socks on marble floors, I'm slipping on it
Champagne I'm sipping on, the shit tastes different, don't it?
You know what? You right
It's like the best damn champagne I had in my life
"When you coming home?" That's a text from my wife
I told her run a bubble bath
And float in that motherfucker like a hovercraft
And soak in that motherfucker 'til I call you back
I mean, who says shit like that, and doesn't laugh?
Hah...
[Hook]


Kanye Omari West can be labelled many things; an artist, an egomaniac, a God, a Rapper and as of June 2013, a father. But before all of these other labels where placed upon him, he was a producer, under the wing of NO ID, thanks to his mother, the late Donda West. After some local success, Ye hit the proverbial jackpot by adding his own touch to Jay Z's classic "The Blueprint". From there, West would continue working towards his debut album, "The College Dropout", which would change the Gangsta Rap sound of the mainstream to a more gentle, conscious tone.
On Lucifer, one of the tracks from Hov’s The Black Album, West sampled and edited the pitch of Max Romeo’s I Chase The Devil.
Echoing part of a line from Isaiah 14:12 in the Bible initially gives the instrumental a Spiritual feeling to it, but to twist the vocals of the sample (much like he did with Through The Wire) gives it a much more soulful feeling.
 Add in two or three verses relating to death and vengeance and you have a prime example of West’s intricately contrasting art form; bringing together the righteous connotations of “Lucifer son of the morning, I’m gonna chase you out of earth” and the dark, vengeful tale from Hov’s past. Ye even got a shout out from Jigga for the beat!
Fast-forward to almost a decade later and you have arguably the best single of 2011; Cruel Summer’s Mercy.
Although not solely produced by Ye, this song is also a prime example of West’s iconic production. The Fuzzy Jones sample, which again relies on a Bible verse, is sped up and pitch-edited, making it hard to distinguish what is actually being said by the Dancehall Legend.
 Then bring in the hook — also supposedly a sample — of pointless braggadocio (Lamborghini Mercy/Yo chick she so thirsty) and the culture-blending contrast between the sample and the actual song speak for themselves.
Next we go backwards a couple of years to West’s epic fairytale-esque My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy.
Power, the theme song of West’s self-centric tour de force, has three samples that make it as epic, as powerful as it is, the first of which is found in the chorus and the second of which, the sample that adds the soul of The College Dropout into the mixing pot of defiance and self-righteousness that is so explicitly Kanye West, comes from Continent Number 6’s “Afroamerica”.
Devil In a New Dress, arguably one of Rick Ross' best features, also has the same soulful touch to do it, 
this time a la the melody and vocal samples of a Smokey Robinson cover of Carole King’s “Will You Still Love Me Tomorrow”.
The irony in the sample is that it’s almost the exact opposite of the song’s lyrical themes, which include decadence (“We love Jesus but you done learned a lot from Satan”) and the ending of his relationship with his ex-fiance, whilst also having a slice of braggadocio, courtesy of Rick Ross (“Lookin at my bitch I bet she’ll give your ass a bone/Lookin at my wrist I bet it’ll turn your ass to stone"). In fact, Devil In a New Dress is probably the perfect example of this exact contrast on Dark Fantasy, but hey, excess is just his character.
The next two songs share common ground, being that they both sample Civil Rights Activist and Soul Singer/Song-Writer Nina Simone. The first of which being the Feeling Good sample on New Day.
 On a track in which Ye and Hov discuss raising their sons to be better men than themselves the sample may seem misplaced, but the concept of it being a new day may relate to the issues and self-inflection Ye shows on this track, and learning from them, so that his son doesn’t end up like the father. All in all, the track is sentimental and shows a softer side to both rappers.
The next and last song to be looked at is “Blood on the Leaves”, which samples Simone’s rendition of Billie Holiday’s Strange Fruit, initially referenced on New Slaves.
 The sample’s placement is again questionable and, again, has it’s pitch edited. However, despite any critic’s assessment of it, it is still a display of Ye’s signature style; taking the sacred political message of Strange Fruit and matching it with the horns from TNGHT’s R U Ready and the reflection on past relationships with some light braggadocio (“He instagram his watch like Mad Rich Alert”).
However, due to the nature of certain songs on Yeezus (New Slaves, Black Skinhead) and some of the racially charged content (“My momma was raised in an era when clean water was only served to the fairer skin” and this gem on I’m In It (which again mixes black power imagery with sexual lyrics) may mean that the sample itself was a statement within this song, and also continued the theme of mixing this race-based material with Kanye’s own personal subject matter and lifestyle.
 At the end of the day only Kanye himself and possibly the producers with him would know the real purpose of this sample but, one thing we do know is that it is definitely his signature style, and we wouldn’t have it any other way.


[Malik Yusef]
Now whatcha finna hear is an update
On what we been on as of late
See I was reading a late notice on the date that I wrote this, you hear
Time flies in the Leer
And you wonder where the day went
See I'm a leader in my field, but I'm behind on my truck payments
So this is something that could help you raise your head like hello
See this is not brown red or yellow
Not a white or black poem
This is a prayer to a guardian angel
To protect our fathers. mothers, sisters, brothers, sons and daughters
Until we bring our troops back home
Cause it feel like we all in the same platoon
And we'll all be extinct soon
If we continue to suffer from other people's crimes
I think we well overdo for change
This time
And I know they don't wanna see me cooped up in a Benz
They'd rather see me cooped up these pens
Therefore I release the ink that's cooped up in these pens
And let my art-ticulate
People are so slow to love, but so quick to hate
Now some things finna change because we say so
Lets stop looking at how bad things are
And focus on how well they may go
And this is a declaration
That we'll be fair again
Especially to those Americans
Who were Americans, before there were Americans
This is to a small young family that's booming out of space
There's room in outer space
This is to my people
The human race
[Hook: Adam Levine]
I need you to
Take us to the promise land
Don't just make us promises
It's too late to let go of our hand
[Kanye West]
They say we need a prophet that can touch on the topics
And make it hot as the tropics. Well you got it
 (you got it)
[Adam Levine]
Take us to the promise land
Don't just make us promises
It's too late to let go of our hand
[Kanye West]
Everybody saying please don't let go
I hear it over and over and over like a echo
I see it in my dreams, I feel the effect though
People drowning in debt
Somebody to the rescue
Everybody's saying we need something special
Nah man, we need something extra terrestrial
Outta this world, speak for us
Be the vessel
Outta the box, reach for it through the threshold
Uh, through all of the stress though
What's best of all, people screaming like a festival
Just applaud, this moment is special y'all
[Adam Levine]
I need you to
And I need you to
And I need you to
I need you to
I need you to


[Hook x8]
Got her toes done up
With her finger nails matchin'
[Verse 1: Kid Sister]
Shake it up up. rock your body and
Make it knock knock, when you're partyin'
Take a break break right in the audience
Do your footwork, break, and stop again
I'm lookin sharp, you can't compete with a champ
Steady flickin' I'm holdin down hat layaway, rent
[?] all in my face
Gold charms and paper chase
Talk smack from around the way
Gotta put these chicken heads in they place
I ain't rockin' no stupid bapes
Ain't trippin', I'll juke all day
I ain't slippin' 'ause either way
When I hit the block all the people say
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Aye, yo this mutherfucka's jammin', I'm on it it's an anthem
Who is that in the Phantom,
 
please no cameras
They gone have me on Concrete Loop in my pajamas
To hide the goods,
 
I would need pants big as Hammers
I be tippin' them dancers,
 
they be sayin' I'm handsome
I was pretty before the dough
 but now I'm just the man
You remind me of my old chick
On that eighty four shit
Oh shit
Did you see the way she got her toes did?
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kid Sister]
Girls be so thirsty, thirsty
Fast forward o the end of my song
And say third verse me, verse me
Whenever I hit block I see
Tricks try to rehearse me, 'hearse me
From manicure sets to silky weaves
They be so grimy, nasty, bogus
Germy, dirty, uh oh
Sure did, ou ain't slick
Naw, let the pioneer blast my shit
Wait a minute, hold up
Bubble letters on my butt say "fresh"
Oops I'mma go, bails like whoa
Acrylic base, top all gold
Colors on my nails to the paint on my toes
Stay fresh, I'm accustomed to gold
[Hook]


[Hook: Kanye West]
'ey baby, am I crazy?
Or was you givin me the eye?
You said maybe? (Yea) Well, you crazy
Because I know I'm too fly
Already know I'm too fly
Already know I'm too fly (You hype!)
Already know I'm too fly
Yeah, I know what you like
[Verse 1: Common]
Right now I'm off the wine, wine, we can take our time, time
So much I want to punch spill the bump when we grind
My uh is in ya body, my uh is in ya mind
Check my dictionary, that ass is so divine
It slippery when it's wet girl, I can read the signs
I knock and I knock, uhh, can I come inside?
I knock and I knock, girl, can I come inside?
I feel like it's home when I'm in between ya thighs
It's the joy and the pain and the bites and the brain
What make it feel so good, that type of stuff you can't explain
I do, what I do, to do, to make it rain
You got the invite tonight and I'm so glad ya came
Cause you the type of danger we gain in yo
Mic check like the way I begin my show
Girl I come from chica' so in I 'go
Turn around, it's about to be a TKO
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Common]
Some call me Com (Com), some call me the Red (Red)
You can call me daddy, I'mma put ya to bed
An appetite for seduction and it gotta be fed
This sexual eruption gotcha hittin ya head
On the board and, knock, you screamin, "Oh Lord"
We exchange like students cause I study a broad
And listen to ya body and, low key party and
I keep pushin and pushin, you pump the vol-i-ume up
We the type to make lovin we up
We take a ride down south cause you need to re-up
Girl you call me Big Bank like I was savin it up
I'm the doctor, I can hold it 'til patience is up
Ah, ah, ah-ah - I make, I make I make it hot baby
Ah, ah-ah - I know, I know, I know ya spot baby
When we do it like we don't want it to end
It's three PM we gon' do it again
[Hook]
[Bridge: Pharrell]
C'mon girl, let's go
To distant lands unknown
We can fly on air
If love is every where for you and me
[Hook] + [Bridge]


This the heart of the muthafuckin city.
 
Act like y'all ain't have the muthafuckin Clipse album.
 
Act like y'all ain't based your whole shit your whole lifestyle off this nigga Pusha T.
 Everything is Pusha T. 
Pyrex vision, that's Pusha T.
 
Fear of God, that's Pusha T.
 
This nigga the heart of the muthafuckin culture, for the culture vultures.
 
This the only nigga spittin that wild muthafuckin hip hop shit, right now
. 
That's why I stand next to this nigga
. I don't give a fuck about none of these corporations,
 none of these fucking sellouts. This is muthafucking Pusha T
This is what the fuck we make. We make good music. We make good music.
 
We don't give a fuck about how much god damn money you make.
 
We make good music
. 
I'm a little ... off that Goose right now. I might get loose right now
We don't give a fuck! We don't give a fuck!
 Nigga this is that culture. This is that culture. For everybody stealin the culture. 
For all the niggas tryna do they camo prints at Magic.
 This muthafuckin Pusha T. 
All the niggas tryna extend they t-shirts, tryna throw numbers on the back.
 This muthafuckin Pusha T
... 
and I got numbers on the back of my shit
 - FUCK YOU! This 
DONDA
. This 
Matt Williams.
 
This Virgil Abloh
. 
This Ferris Bueller
. 
This muthafuckin Pusha T


[Intro: Young Jeezy]
I put on, I put on, I put on
I put on for my city, on-on for my city (x4)
[Verse 1: Young Jeezy]
When they see me off in traffic, they say "Jeezy on some other shit"
Send them pussy niggas runnin' straight back to the dealership
Me, I'm in my spaceship, that's right, I work for NASA
This FNH is not a fraud, call that bitch my bodyguard
"Call that bitch your bodyguard?" Yeah, that's my bodyguard
Wear a lot of jewelry, Young don't do security
What's whiter than a napkin, harder than a dinner plate?
If you want it, come and get it, you know I stay super straight
Ran up in my spots and now I'm working out the Super 8
Know you niggas hungry, come and get a super plate
Y'all sing happy birthday, yeah, I got that super cake
Hundred karat bracelet, I use it like some super bait
[Hook: Young Jeezy] (x2)
I put on for my city, on-on for my city (x2)
Put on (Eastside), put on (Southside)
Put on (Westside),
 put on, let's go!
[Verse 2: Young Jeezy]
Hat back, top back, ain't nothin' but a young thug
HKs, AK's, I need to join a gun club
Big wheels, big straps,
 
you know I like it super-sized
Passenger's a redbone, her weave look like some curly fries
Inside fish sticks, outside tartar sauce
Pocket full of celery, imagine what she tellin' me
Blowin' on asparagus, the realest shit I ever smoked
Ridin' to that 
, the realest shit I ever wrote
They know I got that broccoli,
 
so I keep that Glock on me
Don't get caught without one,
 
coming from where I'm from
Call me Jeezy Hamilton,
 
flying down Campbellton
So fresh, so clean,
 
on my way to Charlene
[Hook]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
I put on, I put on, I put on
I put on for my city, I put on for my
I put on for my city, I put on for my city, on
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
I feel like it's still niggas that owe me checks
I feel like it's still bitches that owe me sex
I feel like this but niggas don't know he's stressed
I lost the only girl in the world that know me best
I got the money and the fame, man, that don't mean shit
I got the Jesus on a chain, man, that don't mean shit
Cause when the Jesus pieces can't bring me peace
Yo, I need just at least, uh, one of Russell's nieces
On, I let my nightmares go
I put on everybody that I knew from the go
I know hoes that was frontin' when they knew he was broke
They say, "Damn, Yeezy Yeezy, you don't know us no more?"
"You got that big fame, homie, and you just changed on me"
You can ask big homie,
 
man, the top so lonely
Ai-ee-ah, so lonely, ai-ee-ah!
Let me see what we have tonight,
 
I'm high as a satellite
I see those flashing lights cause every night, every night, I put on
[Hook]
[Outro: Kanye West] (x2)
Let me see what we have tonight
I'm high as a satellite
I see those flashing lights
Cause every night, every night



RS: Do you define yourself as a rapper?
KW: Yeah. As a joke, whenever I go through customs and have to fill out what my occupation is, I put rapper, because it's almost looked down upon. I used to put rapper on my applications to get a job; the manager would pull me to the side and say, "Man, I'm gonna just tell you—for real, you shouldn't put rapper on your application." So now, because of that, I always put rapper
RS: I never feel I am a fashion designer. I have even found it problematic that the world defines me as a fashion designer. To me it's more like, Yes, it is what I do now, but it's far from my only interest, and I could see myself doing so many other things than fashion. It gives me a certain kind of fear for the future. If I have the interest to change to a very different field, I'm scared people couldn't see me like that anymore because they define me as a fashion designer. I find it very intense, fashion. At one time I was doing only menswear. I was also creating art and teaching at university-that was all combinable. But, you know, once you have a label where you deal with men's and women's and you do six runway shows a year-accessories, campaigns, et cetera-there's a lot less space. I think it's different when musicians enter fashion. A lot of those collections are done by teams. Maybe a music performer is over-viewing, or the music performer is the name-carrier of the brand. It seems to me like it's a side career. There are rappers who start a brand, and then it looks "rap." The way that I design now, it's coming out of me, so there's a lot from me, but it doesn't look like me at all. I see it as my responsibility to take it very far away from me. Even my own brand became an abstraction. I think that's the only way to refresh it and keep it interesting for a big audience, because what you yourself are representing, it's only for a very small group of people. The bigger the brand, the bigger the responsibility, because you have to think of all these kinds of different cultures, different environments, different people, different psychologies . . 
KW: The psychology is really important. When I bring up my own clothing line now, it has to be a practical joke, because I haven't brought it out yet. But the thing is, as I'm working on it, I've learned a lot of the different things that you're saying about a line being too connected and saying: "Okay, this is a line, and it has to have it's own voice. It has to represent something that's not out there." And as I speak on it right now, my words have no weight. People read this in Interview magazine, your words will be in people's minds in bold, and my words, when I bring up clothing or designing, will be in light gray and "Get the fuck out of here, you rapper," until I do something that is basically the opposite of everything that you just said
RS: Maybe we should start something together. Maybe you should buy my brand, and together we'll go do something completely different. Maybe that's what should change. Because that's also what the future is going to be about, it's going to be all crossovers, everywhere, finally. I was criticized in the past, believe me. I was criticized because I touched all the fields and had an interest in all of them. But I think that now is going to be the time of crossovers, especially in fashion-more than in other fields. A general thing that I feel so strongly is that the fashion audience is bored so quickly. They are bored sometimes even before they see a show. It is not something I blame the audience for—I try to find solutions. I try to keep their attention, because I want their attention. Don't ask me why, but I want it. I don't want the attention on me as a person. I could never do what you do; I am not a performer. It makes me nervous and scared. But I really need that attention-because I'm proud, because I believe I have something to say. And the problem is we're going to have so many crossovers that people are going to be bored with those crossovers in one day. That's something that I'm really questioning. Is the motivation business? Is the motivation to keep the audience interested? Are we going to come to a point where the new is not going to be able to be new anymore? Because it's such an important word in fashion, the word new. And it makes me think a lot, because I deal with one brand that has always tried to be about the new and that has always been dealing with coherence. Jil Sander has always been a very coherent brand. Jil as a person had no desire to be in the middle point of the fashion arena to catch attention. But I see, also, that the audience is in this moment looking for that. It is something you have to deal with if you are responsible for a business, and you will be criticized and adored. You cannot have adoration without -being criticized
KW: Yeah. Well, right now it's just criticism. [laughs] No, it's not criticism, it's pessimism. I'm not anywhere near as well-off as people would think for how big my name is, because I put everything back into the album, into recording. I put everything into investing and doing an independent clothing line because I refuse to do a licensing deal where people are like, "Put your name on the front of this shirt, and this is what you do . . . "
RS: I know what it is to go somewhere where you haven't been, and a whole arena is sitting there with lions waiting for the meat to come in. I know exactly the feeling I had when I had to go to Jil Sander and I had never done womenswear. It's a challenge. But it's fantastic. I like the idea of constantly changing, like a chameleon. But it's complicated. Fashion, just like music, deals so intensely with new generations of people who come in and really appreciate change. But in music, even if you've been in the business for 50 years, you stand on the stage, and you do that song from 50 years ago, and the audience will love that same song-they will respect it and respect you for it. In fashion, it's not like that. I cannot go onstage and bring out the same collection from 10 years ago. That wouldn't work. I would be dead


[Kanye West]
Yo Scratch she said, "Yo, I love this beat
But I know he ain't make them sounds with his mouth."
I said, "How you gonna doubt this man?
He got a Grammy for beat boxin' for Christ sake."
How you gonna doubt this man. You know what she said? She said...
[Hook]
Now I'm ready to go (go)
So let me grab my coat (coat)
And then we're out the door (door)
I ain't no ho but I can get low
[Kanye West]
She said, oooh that's my favorite part
Oooh a Ferrari that's my favorite car
The-the-The Roc, them my favorite stars
And I love the way they blaze the charts
But how she gonna play your man?
Act like she ain't know who the hell I am
Or act like she ain't know the jets I land
In Ireland
I let her eye the rims cause she admire them
That goofy that you're running with
I can buy your man
Pause
I ain't trippin'
I don't lie to fans
Y'all
Will soon see how them lames will do you
His name Raymond but he weaker than Raymond (Ramon) noodles
Now she's Grindin'
Throwin' it back like Nolan Ryan
Get it?
She said that ooooh
Really turns me on
So yoooooo
Need to take me home
[Hook] - x2
[Kanye West]
She said ooh this my favorite verse
I knew she kinda bright when she reached in her purse
I said, "Girl you know you freaky, obey your thirst"
It's one o'clock and I'm way past first
And though Jay is killin' girl like O.J
That's why haters want to jack son (Jackson) for his Ice Cubes like O'Shea
They keep a lemon face like they sippin' on Ocean Spray
We toast and say, "We made it to the post Jay"
Send a couple models this way
With their disposable camera they wanna pose with K
Money got me smellin' sweater then Potpurri
Not gonna flow today
I need a whole parade
Fuck that I need a whole brigade
Of girls still rockin' Poetic Justice braids
Just to say, "You O.K. Player, but you no K
But I will give you my number if you know K
[Hook] - x2
[Consequence]
Eww, I'm still kinda stressed
I'm tryin' to climb in your dress
I see you recline in the rest
But my time is pressed
If you tryin' to step
Come holla at your boy, yo I'm one of the next
She said, "You
Gonna have to wait around a minute
Cause my hair ain't done and my nails ain't finished
It's the things that you love
So I need five minutes"
But five turned into twenty
Twenty turned into forty
Give her five minutes and I'm out on shorty
Chill
"Why you leavin'
Tired of the lonely nights and the quiet evenings
Plus I've been horny the entire evening"
True
Uh, now you're talkin'
In front of the telly and now I'm parkin'
But now she got an attitude and now she barkin'
So ooooh
Now she walkin' uh
[Hook]


[Intro: Rell]
Rell and this is Roc-A-Fella music
Crack-i-lackin', stand up
Yeah yeah my baby yeah
[Verse 1: Rell]
Now if love could ever have a flavor
Then it'll taste just like you
And if ever I was able
There's no limit to what I'll do (what I'll do)
So graceful when you walk (graceful when you walk)
Curvaceous in all the right places
I promise if we talk (promise if we talk)
Gonna know that I've been the one that you've been waiting for
[Hook]
So baby come get this real love, you'll see
I know just what you need
[Verse 2: Rell]
Now what is this I done run into (I done run into)
A strawberry wrapped up in chocolate
And from the way her body moves (way her body moves)
I can tell that we would have the bombest sex
But you gotta understand (gotta understand) girl
That it's all up to you (it's all up to you)
Cause I'm a perfect gentlemen, yeah (perfect gentlemen)
When it comes to the way I do
You'll gonna love the way I do baby think it through
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Consequence]
Now last time I've seen here she was saying she was born again
This time I've seen here she was playing in a porn again
Now anytime I quiz her, hold her hooked up with a zero
It sounded like Quizzno, they looking for a hero
But I ain't into trickin' so I do not pay
And yo, my man Kanyeezy, he got something to say
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
You my name is Kanye from the Roc-a-fam
When the Glocks on jam so when we pop 'em scram
We showed you on champions how we get down
So don't twist your lips up like bobby brown
You got LL on your bedroom wall
Well I'll be double L trying to talk to y'all
Now I ain't even stay in class
To figure out RnB to get all of that
Yow 'cuence this girl
So yo I take her out showed her the finer things what the K be 'bout
And if she be gettin' extra friendly then I scoop her to eight
But your homie don't stop so you couldn't relate
So relax yourself girl, we got you now couldn't relate
Relax yourself girl we got you now couldn't relate
Relax yourself girl we got you now
Relax yourself girl we got you now
Relax yourself girl we got you now
Aw damn calm down we back in town
So baby come get this real love , you'll see
I know just what you need


[Intro]
Yeah, yeah, you know how me and 'Ye do
[Verse 1]
Real People walk in the streets, the streets is talkin'
Often it's beef this city never does
People walk and talk in they sleep
Cold sweats and wet dreams
On how to get green our faith is all in a jeep
Black souls raw and they deep
Hypes tryna talk with no teeth
Shorties sayin' ball or retreat
A lesson we all speak at one point or another
What you expect from one who smoke a joint with his mother
Anointed hustlers in a fatherless region
Through the pain wish they know that God was just teachin
'
We want decent homes
So dreams we say out loud like speakerphones just to keep em on
It's like a colored song that keep keepin' on
I guess knowin' I'm weak is when I'm really bein' strong
Somehow through the dust I could see the dawn
Like the Bishop Magic Juan
, that's why I write freedom songs
For the real people
[Verse 2]
I wonder is the spirits of Bob Marley and Haile Selassie
Watch me as the cops be tryna and pop and lock me
They cocky, plus they mentality is Nazi
The way they treat blacks I wanna snap like paparazzi
We're the children of a better God searchin' for better jobs
We could cop ghetto cars tryin' not to catch a charge
They say the dope game is sour
Now they doin' homework that's when they follow you for hours
Come to your crib and devour all that you work for
Must be more than paper these niggas hurt for
Through the purple haze I circle days I rhyme that work for pays
Tryna reverse the slave's mind and insert the brave mentality
Heard that it's drama at home
Can a dude break free and still get honored at home
I was told by a chief it's the games nature
When you're glowin' some will love and some will hate ya
It's real people
[Verse 3]
Black men walking wit white girls on they arms
I be mad at em as if I know they moms
Told to go beyond the surface, a person's a person
When we lessen our women our condition seems to worsen
The weary cursin' the sky
Talkin' to themselves givin' the version of why help and hurt in they eye
I live across from it, some of it I do be in
I be showin' niggas lives
Like UPN
It's real people
Yeah
For you and yours
Good music
Forever
Yeah
Rock on
We keep on
Uh.. Yeah
Yeah, yeah
The real...


Kanye's getting revenge on Nike by landing a 
MONSTER
 deal with Adidas. So what's it worth?



[Produced by Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
'Bout the baddest girl I ever seen
Straight up out a movie scene
Who knew she was a drama queen
That'd turn my life to Stephen King's
Up late night like she on patrol
Checking everything like I'm on parole
I told her there's some things she don't need to know
She never let it go
Ok, Ok, Ok, Ok
You will never stop it now
You never stop it now
Ok, Ok, Ok
You will never stop it now
You need to drop it now
Drop it, drop it
[Hook]
Cause I don't want no Robocop
You moving like a Robocop
When did you become a Robocop
Now I don't need no Robocop
[Verse 2]
Just looking at your history
You're like the girl from Misery
She said she ain't take it to this degree
Well let's agree to disagree
Shorty kind of crazy but it turn me on
Keep it up enough to keep it going on
I told her there's some things she don't need to know
She never let it go
Ok, ok, ok, ok
You will never stop it now
You never stop it now
Ok, ok, ok
You will never stop it now
You need to drop it now
Drop it, drop it
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Stop... drop... roll... pop
Bitch I'm cold... I
Ain't used to being told stop
So I could never be your robot
Fast or slow, you can stay or can go
Now, now that you know, now, now that you know
Yea I had her before but that happened before
You get mad when you know, so just don't ask me no more
Ok, ok, ok, uh, uh
It ain't ok, ok, ok
[Outro]
You spoiled little LA girl
You're just an LA girl
You spoiled little LA girl
You're just an LA girl
You spoiled little LA girl
You're just an LA girl (you need to stop it now)
You spoiled little LA girl
You're just an LA girl (you need to stop it now)
Oh you're kidding me
You must be joking
Or you are smoking
Oh oh you're kidding me
Oh you're kidding me
Haha that was a good one
Your first good one in a while
Your first good one in a while
You need to stop it now
You need to stop it now
Oh you need to stop it now


[Intro: JAY Z]
Is this thing on?
Oh, I thought they silenced us, Ye
Power to the people
We living in that 31st century, futuristic fly shit
The penthouse is the projects and everybody flies private
New watches; you know what time it is, watch us
They can’t stop us, the prophets, biatches!
[Hook: Kanye West]
No one man should have all that power
The clock’s ticking, I just count the hours
Stop tripping, I’m tripping off the power
(No one man should have all that power)
[Verse 1: JAY Z]
Rumble, young man, rumble
Life is a trip, so sometimes we gonna stumble
You gotta go through pain in order to become you
But once the world numbs you, you’ll feel like it’s only one you
Now you got the power to do anything you want to
Until you ask yourself, "Is this what it’s all come to?"
Looking at life through sunglasses and a sunroof
But do you have the power to get out from up under you
Fuck all these labels, fuck what everybody wants from you
They're trying to Axl Rose you, welcome to the jungle
To be continued, we on that Norman Mailer shit
In search of the truth even if it goes through Taylor Swift
Tell her this
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Now when I walk in, everybody do the "Power" clap
Fresh for the club, I just took a half an hour nap
I seen people go crazy when the whole world in our lap
My socket was out the plug, now it’s time to get the power back
I seen people abuse power, use power, misuse and then lose power
Power to the people at last, it’s a new hour
Now we all ain’t going be American Idols
But you can least grab a camera, shoot a viral,
 
huh
Take the power in your own hands
I’m a grown man, doing my grown dance
I don’t stop until I see the end, my vision clear, bitch
I’m on my Van Gogh, I don’t hear shit
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Now everything I’m rhyming on cause a Ramadan
Been a don, praying for the families lost in the storm
Bring our troops back from Iraq, keep our troops out of Iran
So the next couple bars, I’mma drop 'em in Islam
They say as-salamu alaykum say wa alaikum assalam
That’s no Oscar Mayer bacon, you should run and tell your mom
Now the question is, how we going stop the next Vietnam
Keep Flex out of Korea, cause you know he drop bombs
[Break: Swizz Beatz]
Showtime
Hey, yo, Yeezy
Stop playing with these people, man
They want see you act all crazy in this motherfucker, man
Take that jacket off and go crazy on them niggas, man
You know what I’m talking about
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
What do it mean to be the boss
It mean second place is the first one who lost
The crucifixion, the being nailed to the cross
Truth or fiction,
 
it’s a hell of a cost, do the dishes
I’m about to hit that Jeff Gordon
Michael Jordan, the only one more important
But I be feeling like Jordan when I’m recording
‘Cause every time I record, I dunk and slap the boards
I don’t know what these rappers gonna do afterwards
Prolly spaz like I might do at the awards
Huh, I got the whole crowd going crazy
Homie, I should be rewarded
Gettin' money, Yeezy, Yeezy, how you do it, huh
Eating Wheaties,
 
drinkin' Fiji, being greedy, huh
Don’t even think you can allude to the rumors
I’m immune to the boos, I’ma prove to you losers
It’s all in time, my nigga
See, I dreamed my whole life that I could rhyme with Jigga
Now Jay my big brother
 
and B my lil sister
And excuse me, but you can’t see my lil sister
Number one sound across the board, hey
Number one now and forevermore, hey
Number one rule is niggas don’t hate
Maybe I’ll drop the album, nah, all y’all gotta wait
And on the net, they showing pictures of my Cali place
My Maybach in NY, but it still got the Cali plates
All my old girls know that I’m the one that got away
I think about at Christmas and play some Donny Hathaway
And keep my bulletproof hater coat on
Looking at some photos that I’m looking crazy dope on
Hand up, talking shit, yeah, I get my Pope on
And go home with something to poke on
That’s what Dre said, but this what Ye said
How Ye doing? Who Ye screwin?
That’s for my dick to know, before you get to know him
She ain’t give you ass, that pussy fictional
I gotta give her the eviction note
‘Tis, get yo’ ass out, bitch, vamonos
Five seconds to the song and we getting close
I got the power, motherfucker, if you didn’t know
[Outro: Swizz Beatz]
Chill, chill, chill, chill, man
Chill, Ye, chill
Shit’s burned up already
It’s over


[Kanye West]
And I swear she a riot folks
How she order all that food and a motherfucking Diet Coke?
He said "You lying yo, why is you lying Joe?
Cut it out, quit it G, you hurting my kid-i-neys."
Naw, she talking bout a couple of kids for me
She's hinting at a ring from Tiffany's
Right then and there I had an epiphany
I swear since that day I've been treating fat girls differently
She told me if you read music you a genius
I don't play but I'll introduce you to my pianist
She said you need a little ice just to keep me cool
No dimes but baby here go the family jewels
I'm tight with my doe like my family Jews
Uh! I said "Jews" my career is screwed
I ain't mean in the Hanukkah sense of the word
I realize it's a sensitive word
Plus a lot of best friends is white
I mean ah, I mean my Air 1's, my diamonds and my Benz is white
And I ain't one of them producers that pretend to write
Ayo, Teefa, uh why don't you come on grab the mic
[Teefa]
Yo yo
I know you use to being a womanizer
Coming at me and girls talking 'bout a men-a-
You're some fool
Thinking I'm gon' strip like Moulin Rouge
While you biting off my garter
I'm not easy you gotta come harder
I want a man, not just a baby father
Teefa no [?] no appetizer
Haha
Why you kick it with your guys fo'?
You got eyes for girls, just spread it out
You done pissed Teefa off like draining my bladder out
Haha
[Interlude]
[Kanye]: Aw, you crazy
[Teefa]: You got me up in here tripping
[Kanye]: Nah, but look, I said, I said look
[Kanye]
Ayo my Rocafella chain hurt the game very bad
My girl rocking the little lamb that Mary had
A little bit of Ghost’s style mixed with Mos's style
I'm versatile I'm the poster child
Getting cheese so I'm suppose to smile, get it
We making hits like Sosa now, hit it
And I hate when girls acting bougie as hell
And I already seen them naked like Blu Cantrell
Aw, forget it, forget it


[Intro x2: Kanye West]
Will I ever change in this life?
My grandma said I'll never change and she right
Y'all think that L.A. gang banging, shit hype?
Well you finna' find out what the game be like
[Verse 1: Game]
Red rag on my rear view
No tint in the Porsche, see clear through
God screaming up out them speakers so loud that a nigga can't hear you
Wake up to a diamond cross, I'm a Christian
Got a nigga feeling like Obama 'nem
Niggas shot out my windows, 
they jealous and envy
They spit on my 'Rari, they keyed up my Bentley
They went at my top dog like Ab-Soul and Kendrick
I said I'm a killa', god damn it I meant it
I said I sold crack, nigga bubbling skillets
At my grandma's house, I was selling work in it
And god bless her soul, she died
Back out the four, load up the five
Pop up the trunk, load up them pies
Aye 'Ye, ain't this how them niggas do it in the Chi?
Vice Lords, GD's
Crips, Bloods
 and Impala's on gold D's
Yesterday a nigga swore he was a man in the hood
Now he begging for his life on both knees
I'm a killer, no codees
Ask 40 Glocc , niggas don't know me
Got a problem blood, then come show me
I'm on Rosecrans ing them Kobe's
Got diamonds off in my Rollie, granddaddy stuffed in my stogie
Motherfuck them Axel Foleys
Where I'm from, niggas shooting at the police
Man these fuck niggas got me screwed up
I'm like Papa Smurf in that blue truck
Red hat, red pants, walking inside dreams with the kush in my hand
I'm
[Hook x4: Z-Ro]
Rollin', rollin', rollin', rollin', rollin', rollin', rollin'
Them drugs up
[Verse 2: Trae The Truth]
Young nigga 15, broke, livin’ the scene
Sawed off in my pants, ‘bout to go make the lean
Finna' rob me a nigga who’s money wasn’t the same
Somebody gon' give it to me, or get one up in the brain
Mama used to stroke it just to feed me scraps
Every Saturday, it was YO! MTV raps
Got sick of looking at other niggas that ain't deserve it
So I followed my older brother to beat these traps
I ain't worried about the love, I've seen everything
The hood hot,
 like the devil had it off in his hands
Send a strap your way, I seen a couple of fans
Last pack, I took that and a couple of bands
If I ain't hustle to eat, I was doing ?
But they would give it to me, everyday I was paying dues
I was a young wild nigga missing a couple screws
In the hood, when I'm scared, only thing I'mma use, when I'm...
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Paul Wall]
Mane, hold up
? with a cup full of lean, and a 4-0 tucked
No more sleep, gotta get more bucks, OG rolled up
Stakes are high, so I pray to God the folks don't roll up
Big sister told me I need to grow up
But I need that money, better not crumb me
Pockets fat as my codeine tummy
Trying to get blow like my nose was runny
I work for mine, you can't take that from me
Wrap it up, like Egyptian mummy
And have it ready when I roll on up
Stacking dough on up, from the floor on up
And I'm all through the hood like ice cream trucks, just rollin'
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Slim Thug]
Keep kush rolled, that dream I'm holding
In the candy Caddy' with with ninety molding
Bought a drop, put it in the shop
But everything I got, on that bitch stolen
Had a grill but couldn't afford the wheels
Had paint, but it wasn't candy
Kick endo to try and get that dough
Whole family know, so they couldn't stand me
Run and tell your mama, come get your son
Mama like damn, what the hell he done
Brother had bricks, but didn't give me shit
So when he went to the pen, I ain't send him shit
Mama at work, so I ran the house
Ray on lock, 
so now I'm the boss
Turn that face up like the Mary Jane
I was slanging 'caine, got us all kicked out
[Hook]
[Outro: Game]
From Compton, all the way to Chi-Town
Back on down to Houston, Texas baby
Trae The Truth, Z-Ro, Slim Thugga, Paul Wall, Common, Kanye West, and The Game
Jesus Piece
Either you got one, you want one, or you bout to rob a nigga for one
So what it's gon' be nigga?
(Gun shots, laughs)


[Produced by Kanye West and Jon Brion]
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I know it's past visiting hours
But can I please give her these flowers?
The doctor don't wanna take procedures
He claim my heart can't take the anaesthesia
It'll send her body into a seizure
That lil' thing by the hospital bed, it'll stop beepin
Hey chick, I'm at a loss for words
What do you say at this time? Remember when I was 9?
Tell her everything gon' be fine, but I be lyin'
Her family cryin', they want her to live, and she tryin'
I'm arguin like what kind of doctor can we fly in
You know the best medicine go to people that's paid
If Magic Johnson got a cure for AIDS
And all the broke motherfuckers passed away
You telling me if my grandma's in the NBA
Right now she'd be okay?
 
But since she
Was just a secretary, worked for the church for 35 years
Things 'sposed to stop right here
My grandfather tryin to pull it together, he's strong
That's where I get my confidence from
I asked the nurse "Did you do the research?"
She asked me, "Can you sign some t-shirts?"
Bitch, is you smokin reefer?
You don't see that we hurt? But still
[Hook]
I smile, when Rosie comes to see me
And I can't wait for a sunny day (seeing it through your eyes)
Can't wait for the clouds to break
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
They outside of the emergency room
You can feel my heartbeat, beat, beat
If she gon' pull through, we gon' find out soon
But right now she asleep, sleep, sleep
My momma say they say she could pass away any day
Hey chick, what these doctors know anyway?
Let me see the X-rays, I ain't no expert, I'm just hurt
Cousin Kim took off of work
Plus my Aunt Shirley, Aunt Beverly, Aunt Clay and Aunt Jean
So many Aunties we could have an Auntie Team
Feel like Amerie, it's just "One Thing"
When they said that she made it you see they eyes gleam
I think we at a all-time high
To get there, we run, we fly, we drive
Cause with my family we know where home is
And so instead of sending flowers, we're the roses
[Hook]
[Sung] Oh, Rosie brings the sunshine, oh
[Hook]
[Outro]
I, smile, when Rosie come to see me
And I'm sad, when Rosie goes away
Oh Rosie brings the sunshine (say)
Can't wait, I can't wait, no
Can't wait, I can't wait, no
Can't wait, I, can't wait
No, can't wait, for, for a sunny day
Momma can't wait, for the clouds to break
Mm mmm mm mm-mm mm-mm
Oh oh oh oh no no, say
Tellin' you the truth now
Said I can't wait, uh-uh
I won't wait, no


[Produced by Emile, Jeff Bhasker, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Hook]
And I always find, yeah, I always find something wrong
You been putting up with my shit just way too long
I'm so gifted at finding what I don't like the most
So I think it's time for us to have a toast
Let's have a toast for the douchebags
Let's have a toast for the assholes
Let's have a toast for the scumbags
Every one of them that I know
Let's have a toast for the jerk-offs
That'll never take work off
Baby, I got a plan
Run away fast as you can
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
She find pictures in my e-mail
I sent this bitch a picture of my dick
I don't know what it is with females
But I'm not too good with that shit
See, I could have me a good girl
And still be addicted to them hoodrats
And I just blame everything on you
At least you know that's what I'm good at
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Run away from me, baby, run away
Run away from me, baby, run away
When it starts to get crazy
, why can't she just, run away?
Baby, I got a plan, run away fast as you can
[Verse 2 - Pusha T]
24/7, 365, pussy stays on my mind
I-I-I-I did it, all right, all right, I admit it
Now pick your next move, you could leave or live wit' it
Ichabod Crane with that motherfucking top off
Split and go where? Back to wearing knockoffs, haha
Knock it off, Neiman's, shop it off
Let's talk over mai tais
, 
waitress, top it off
Hoes like vultures,
 
wanna fly in your Freddy loafers
You can't blame 'em, they ain't never seen Versace sofas
Every bag, every blouse, every bracelet
Comes with a price tag, baby, face it
You should leave if you can't accept the basics
Plenty hoes in the balla-nigga matrix
Invisibly set, the Rolex is faceless
I'm just young, rich, and tasteless
P!
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Never was much of a romantic
I could never take the intimacy
And I know I did damage
Cause the look in your eyes is killing me
I guess you are at an advantage
Cause you can blame me for everything
And I don't know how I'mma manage
If one day you just up and leave
[Hook]
[Outro]


[Intro 2x]
Runaway, did I make you runaway? Did I make you runaway?
How many people came with the one they love tonight?
[Verse 1]
You know love ain't always gon' be easy
Especially when people in your business like the way they do Yeezy
And ladies? I know you girls gon' be
Always talk 'bout what he did
Fellas? I know you guys
Always talk 'bout what she did
Y'all be going through up's and down's
Havin' fights and shit
I want you do a favor
First of all, just for the ladies
I just want you do me more favor
And y'all please now checking e-mails, cause I
Got it in the e-mails so guys get away with shit and some
I'm just serious, I'm just serious, I'm just serious
But for real 'bout tonight
[Hook 2x]
If you love someone tonight hold onto'em real tight
If you love somebody tonight hold onto'em real tight, real tight, real tight
[Verse 2]
Cause I always find, yeah I always find
If I told you I 
can make ... tonight
Don't listen to me baby cause I'm an asshole
And you always find, and you always find
Yeah I always find, yeah I always find
If I told you I can make the way to heaven tonight
Don't listen to me baby cause I'm an asshole
And you always find, yeah you always find
Yeah I always find, yeah I always find
If I told you I won every single bill 'bout you every minute I had to
Don't listen to me cause I'm an asshole
And you always found and the one place I fucked up
I thought you'd always be mine, I thought you'd always be mine
I thought you'd always be mine and if I say I didn't love you, I was lying
I swear to God I was lying, I swear to God I was lying
I swear to God I was lying, I swear to God I was lying
[Bridge]
So do me a favor
[Hook 2x]
If you love someone tonight hold onto'em real tight
If you love somebody tonight hold onto'em real tight, real tight, real tight


[Intro: Raekwon]
Visual, visual
JB
Yo, Ye, what up?
Raekwon
[Verse 1: Raekwon]
You got stacks like the International House of Pancakes
All alone, 
ready to phone me in your handshakes
Palms is wet, a don's regret
Never to walk miles for love; I sit in the starter's deck
It just happened I was floating, you seen the Captain?
Blinked at me then I threw him my thinking cap
Take her, then we could slide to Jamaica
Shop for like a year or two, stop in Diego
It's obvious I want to see who your mami is
We just friends so she can't Clyde/Bonnie this
Fly walls, dining in fly halls
Come to the master suite, leave every piece in the master hall
All my money tied in knots
Stand over there, that's why I make it happen on blocks
Brazil cut sweater, patent leather
Playing the field, trying to outslick Baretta
[Verse 2: Justin Bieber]
You see, my baby up and hit the road
Where she's going? That's what nobody knows
I need to find her before another man does
I wouldn't want him to steal my love
I'm just trying to be cool, cool, cool
Gotta be cool
What you expect me to do?
I'm just trying to find, find, find
[Hook: Justin Bieber]
This sweet love of mine
I'm running out of time
Where is my runaway love?
Searching low and high
Know that I'm not letting up
I'd give it all up for us
But it'll never be enough
I won't stop until I find my runaway love
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Last name West and my teeth diamonds
She said, "yo what's your occupation, crazy rhyming?"
Listen to Wu-Tang, trying suits on
Accoutrements is Grey Poupon
Stunting in a high top Louis's,
 
shorts is the Coogis
Open up the door when you take her to the movies
When you meet the parents, you tell De Niro
Her boyfriend's a zero, she need to cut the weirdo
Next show they gotta up the zeros
Nobody's rocking like this 16 years old
The hard drums and the Wally's something that caught me
I'm telling you what Wu-Tang taught me
The young youth, rocking the gold tooth
Pull up in a drop top, old school bumping
 
"Cash Rules"
No question we the reason why the summer's blazing
Let's say, 
"you looking good fly colored asian!"
Raw I give it to you, no trivia
She used to roll with my G-Unit like Olivia
Until she caught me getting numbers and hugs
I guess that's the day she became a runaway love
[Hook]
[Bridge: Justin Bieber]
Why can't I find you, love of mine?
When you're standing in front of my face
Oh why, I must be blind
How did I let you get away?
[Verse 4: Raekwon]
Leave it up to the most high, sitting in a ghost fly
Chilling with two of my brothers
, we both live
On deck grabbing em' on set
This is how we roll in the business, she a go I'm a go get
Take that queen or shorty up
We can live it up every month baby girl, just call me up
Waking up resting in cold sweats
Thinking of this bitch, the videotapes, even the stress
My mind is a terrible thing to waste
No love lost, I know I'm going crazy I can't floss
Me, my lady left my homies it's all baloney
Just like rocking the old Pony's
So when I'm chilling, I'm just lost no more feeling
I need my honey in my life get that feel me
Take your time, readjust and ya you shine
My runaway love didn't mind, come on
[Hook x2]


[Produced by Kanye West & No I.D]
[Intro: Rihanna]
Feel it coming in the air
Hear the screams from everywhere
I’m addicted to the thrill
It's a dangerous love affair
Can’t be scared when it goes down
Got a problem tell me now
Only thing that's on my mind is who's gonna run this town tonight
Is who's gonna run this town tonight
We gonna run this town!
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
We are, yeah, I said it: we are
This is 
Roc Nation
, 
pledge your allegiance
Get your fatigues on, all black everything
Black cards
, black cars
All black everything
And our girls are blackbirds riding with they Dillingers
I get more in depth
 if you boys really real enough
This is la Familia,
 
I'll explain later
But for now let me get back to this 
paper
I'm a couple bands down
 and I'm tryin' get back
I gave Doug a grip and lost a flip for five stacks
Yeah, I'm talking 5 comma, 6 zeroes, dot zero,
 
here Doug
Back to running circles round niggas
Now we squared up
, hold up
[Hook: Rihanna]
Life’s a game but it's not fair
I break the rules so I don’t care
So I keep doing my own thing
Walking tall against the rain
Victory’s within the mile
Almost there don’t give up now
Only thing that's on my mind is who’s gonna run this town tonight
Hey (etc.)
Who’s gonna run this town tonight
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
We are, yeah, I said it: we are
You can call me Caesar, in a dark Caesar
Please follow the leader
So Eric B we are
 
Microphone fiend
This the return of the God
, 
Peace, God
Ah ah, it ain't no nobody fresher
I'm in Maison, ah, Martin Margiela
On the table screaming, "fuck the other side, they're jealous!"
We got a banquette full of broads
They got a table full of fellas
Yeah, and they ain't spending no 
cake
They should throw their hand in cause they ain't got no spades
Yeah, my whole team got dough
So my banquette is looking like millionaires' row
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
It's crazy how you can go from being Joe Blow
To everybody on your dick...no homo
I bought my whole family whips; no Volvos
Next time I’m in church, please: no photos
Police escorts, everybody passports
This the life that everybody ask for
This the fast life, we are on a crash course
What you think I rap for to push a fuckin' Rav 4?!
But I know that if I stay stunting
All these girls only gonna want one thing
I can spend my whole life goodwill hunting
Only good gonna come is it's good when I'm cumming
She got an ass that'll swallow up a G-string
And up top, ah, 2 bee stings
And I'm beasting off the Riesling
And my nigga just made it out the precinct
We give a damn about the drama that your dude bring
I'm just trying to change the color on your mood ring
Reebok, baby, you need to try some new things
Have you ever had shoes without shoe strings?
"What's that, Ye?" "Baby, these heels"
"Is that a May-what?" "Baby, these wheels"
You trippin' when you ain't sippin', have a refill
You feeling like you running huh? Now you know how we feel


[Verse 1: Jhene]
See I got a lot to say
And I ain't afraid to say it
Mind on money so it's why I'm tryin' to make it
Yeah, but the money's what you make it
Let it make you see where it's gon' take ya
Hey, you'll be headed nowhere
Moving so fast you won't even care
Yeah, but when you get there
What you gon' do when nobody's there?
Ay, I know what you're gonna say
Made it there alone so you don't worry 'bout they
Hey, but when it all goes away
You gonna be stuck so what I'm tryna say is
Don't lose your
[Hook]
Soul
Oh, Let go,
 
let go of your ego
Don't lose your soul
Sail your soul
Sailing soul
[Verse 2: Jhene]
Is it really worth it?
You are only hurting yourself
You will never grow if you lose control over yourself
(Don't let go)
If you don't get a hold of yourself
Then you will end up with no self
You're Playing the game for the fame in the end
But what do you gain when you're paying to win?
You don't
You better keep your soul
Set sail or get sold, oh
[Verse 3: Kanye]
I sold my soul to the devil thats a crappy deal
Least it came with a few toys like a happy meal
This game you could never win
Cause they love you then they hate you then they love you again
Get away from me loneliness
Get away from me misery
Get away from me fake bitches
, 
I can’t take the phoniness
Get away from me whack tracks
I can only make only hits
I’m an only child lost in the World
Where did the lonely kids go when the bell rings
It's feeling like hell rings
Bringing me back down
He's checking my background
It's ironic whats happening, 
imagine if I didn’t have the ends
I wouldn't have so many imaginary friends
I’m spaced out dog, I be on that Moon talk
Wonder if God ask Mike how to moonwalk
I swear to momma wish me and my father talk more
I stopped visiting around the time I was a sophomore
I guess everything I hate about me I see in him
And I ain’t finna change, so we'll never agree again
Just a few things pouring out my soul
Rosewood, we can see out with our eyes closed
G.O.O.D. Music
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West, DJ Mustard, and Mike Dean]
[Intro: Betty Wright]
There's a field with angels movin' around me
I just worship thee, for all he's done for me
It's a new day, I have been born again
I've been born again, I've been born again
In His spirit, and His name, I'm sanctified!
Lord I testify, he's right by my side
I believe it be, His word is so clear to me
Yeah, yeah
[Hook: Big Sean]
All I want's 100 million dollars and a bad bitch
Plus that paper chasin', it done turn me to a savage
Groupies in the lobby, they just tryna get established
God, I've been guilty, fornicatin' from my status
[Hook: 
]
All I wanted was 100 million dollars and a bad bitch
Plus that paper chasin', it had turned me to a savage
Groupies in the lobby they just tryna get established
God, I've been guilty, fornicatin' from my status
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Niggas be lovin' the old Ye, they sayin' the new Ye, that nigga be spazzin'
But when Ali turn up and be Ali, you can't ever change that nigga back to Cassius
So you can gon' and make up lies, but I'm so sanctified
I don't sweat it, wipe my forehead with a handkerchief
And wash my sins in the blood of Jesus
 
People sayin', "Ye we need another Yeezus"
 
Lames try to tell me, "Cut the wildin' out, out"
But who the fuck is you reachin'?
Pass me 30 bottles, champagne procession
That's that Holy water, sanctified refreshments
God sent me a message, said I'm too aggressive
Really!? Me!? Too aggressive!?
[Bridge: Betty 
]
I can feel his blessings wash away my sins
I'm sanctified and, I have been born again
Now I proclaim, hallowed be thy name
Ohhh
[Hook: 
]
[Verse 2: Rick Ross]
Keys to my success, I get new keys and new address
Bitches that I date don't get degrees but they can dress
Fellatio's amazin', make grilled cheese for you, the best
Major cult figure, I'm the fresh David Koresh
Soldiers all in gators, new Mercedes for cadets
Balmain uniform,
 
you know Donda designed the vest
Double M, that be the Army, better yet, the Navy
Baby seen me in that Wraith, wanna have my baby
All I wanted was a hundred million dollars and a bad bitch
Now I want two hundred and ménage in my palace
Walkin' out the jeweler with no mothafuckin' balance
Somewhere in Jamaica I'm still holdin' on my chalice
Rims on my Ferrari, my bitch said that I was childish
'Til I fuck a girl, 
 tweeted that I was stylish
When we fucked again, she told me "That was just some foul shit"
I walk into the room, you can even hear all the silence
[Bridge: Betty Wright]


[Produced by Kanye West, DJ Mustard, and Mike Dean]
[Intro: Betty Wright]
There's a few million angels movin' around me
I just worship thee, for all he's done for me
It's a new day, I have been born again
I've been born again, I've been born again
In His spirit, and His name, I'm sanctified!
Lord I testify, he's right by my side
I believe it be His word is so clear to me
Yeah, yeah
[Hook: Big Sean]
All I want's 100 million dollars and a bad bitch
Plus that paper chasin', it done turn me to a savage
Groupies in the lobby they just tryna get established
God, I've been guilty, fornicatin' from my status
[Verse: Big Sean]
Only real niggas so I know that you still gon' be absent
I feel like I'm the black Brad Pitt when I wake up to fuckin' an actress
We just shot a movie last night on the couch and I swear that that shit is a classic
If I want it, I need it, I need it, I have it, hit so much it's a habit
I'm greedy, I'm greedy, man fuck it, I'm greedy
Her titties so big that I nicknamed them DeeDee
I know that the devil is callin'
Man fuck that weak-ass nigga, let it keep ringin'
Right now I'm connected with Jesus, on threeway with Yeezus
We just signed a treaty,
 
I'm on the couch like "Free my niggas!"
But niggas cannot get a freebie
If I'm in the field then you know that I TD
Overtime, all the time, man I repeat it
I need some good pussy and Posturepedic
Stressin' so hard think my hairline receded
I say how I say and I feel how I feel
And I won't take it back, it's no need to recede it
You stuck on a bitch?
Well I stuck to the script all my life, ain't no need to re-read it
If you got my email, you's a millionaire
If you got my cellphone, you's a realionare
I ain't been home in months but bitch I'm still the mayor
That Detroit nigga gettin' married but I'm still a player
[Bridge: Betty Wright]
I can feel his blessings wash away my sins
I'm sanctified and, I have been born again
Now I proclaim, hallowed be thy name
Ohhh


[Verse: Drake]
Why do I feel so alone?
Like everybody passing through the studio
Is in character as if we acting out a movie role
Talking bullshit as if it was for you to know
And I don't have the heart to give these
Bitch niggas the cue to go
So they stick around kicking out feedback
And I entertain it as if I need that
I had a talk with my uncle and he agreed that
My privacy about the only thing I need back but
It's hard to think of them polite flows
When Stefano Pilati suits are your night clothes
And Jordan sweat suits are your flight clothes
And you still make it even when they say your flight closed
Eyes hurting from the camera phone light shows
Life was so full
Now this shit just being lipo'd
Always said I'd say it all on the right track
But in this game you only lose when you fight back
Black diamond bracelets
Showing you the basics
I can't live and hold the camera
Someone gotta tape this
And make hits like a bitch that's married
I ain't miss
24 hours from greatness
I'm that close
Don't ever forget the moment
You began to doubt
Transitioning from fitting in to standing out
Los Angeles Cabanas or Atlanta South
Watchin' Hov's show
Embarrassed to pull my camera out
And my mother embarrassed
To pull my Phantom out
So I park about five houses down
She say I shouldn't have it until I have the crown
But I don't wanna feel the need to wear disguises around
So she wonder where my mind is, accounts in the minus
But yet I'm rolling round the fuckin' city like your highness
Got niggas reactin' without a sinus
Cause what I'm working with is timeless
And promoters try to get me out to they club
They say I have fun but I can't imagine how
Cause I just seen my ex-girl
Standing with my next girl
Standing with the girl that I'm fuckin' right now
And shit could get weird unless they all down
And so I stay clear
We from a small town
Everybody talks and everybody listen
But somehow the truth just always comes up missing
I've always been something that these labels can't buy
Especially if they tryin' to take a piece of my soul
And Sylvia be tellin' Tez "Damn, Drake fly"
And he just be like "Silly motherfucker, I know
That was your bad
How could you pass up on 'em?
He just take them records
And he gas up on 'em
Wayne will prolly put a million cash up on 'em
Surprised no one ever put your ass up on 'em"
Oh they did Poe
At least they tried to
And that's what happens
When you spitting what's inside you
But slip up and shoot the wrong fucking video
And they think they can market you
However they decide to nahh
But 40 told me to do me
And don't listen to anybody that knew me
Cause to have known me would
Mean that there's a new me
And if you think I changed in the slightest
Could've fooled me
Boy in my city I'm da 2-3
Drug dealers live vicariously through me
I quit school and it's not because I'm lazy
I'm just not the social type
And campus life is crazy understand
I could get money with my eyes closed
Lost some of my hottest verses down in Cabo
So if you find a Blackberry with the side scroll
Sell that mothafucka to any rapper that I know
Cause they need it much more than I ever will
I got new shit
I'm gettin' better still
Little niggas put my name in they verses
Cause they girlfriend put my ass on a pedestal
Future said cause this 'Ye shit you better kill
And I think this got this "Making of a Legend" feel
Problem with these other niggas they
Ain't never real
Yea ... that's all I can say


[Verse 1]
'Bout the baddest girl I ever seen
Straight up out a movie scene
Who knew she was a drama queen
That'd turn my life to Stephen King's
Up late night like she on parole
Checking everything like I'm on parole
I told her it's some things she don't need to know
She never let it go
Ok, Ok, Ok, Ok
You will never stop it now
You never stop it now
Ok, Ok, Ok
You will never stop it now
You need to stop it now
Drop it, drop it
[Verse 2]
Just looking at your history
You're like the girl from Misery
She said she ain't take it to this degree
Well let's agree to disagree
Shorty kind of crazy but it turn me on
Keep it up enough to keep it going on
I told her it’s some things she don't need to know
She never let it go
Ok, ok, ok, ok
You will never stop it now
You never stop it now
Ok, ok, ok
You will never stop it now
You need to drop it now
Drop it, drop it
[Hook]
Cause I don't want no Robocop
You move is like a Robocop
When did you become a Robocop
Somebody please make her stop
Make her stop, stop…
Somebody make her stop, stop…
And we won’t stop
I’d like to welcome everybody to VH1 storytellers
I go by the name of – Kanye, West
You could’ve been anywhere in the world this evening, but you wouldn’t be as happy as you are right now
No, you wouldn’t be as happy as you are right now
We’re gonna run through some of the new songs and some of the old songs
And tell you where the whole thing went wrong, and tell you were the whole thing went wrong that forced me to write these songs
For my love, my love, my love
My love [3x]
That spoiled little LA girl, you just an LA girl
That spoiled little LA girl, you just an LA girl
Oh you're kidding me
You must be joking
Or you are smoking
Oh oh you're kidding me
Oh you're kidding me
Haha that was a good one
Your first good one in a while
Your first good one in a while
You need to stop it now
Go ahead and stop it now
You need to stop it now
You know, I really like that part of the album
When I said
That was a good one, your first good one in a while
‘Cause I love Tenacious D and I listen to them all the time
And I feel that was the closest I got to like a real Jack Black moment
And there was a lot more that I said, I said
We got to the movies and we laugh at different jokes
It went on and on and on and on…
But I just narrowed it down to:
Spoiled little LA girl, you just an LA girl
Spoiled little LA girl, you just an LA girl
Spoiled little LA girl, man I love these LA girls
These LA girls, man I love these LA girls
Ok, Ok, Ok, Ok
You will never stop it now
You never stop it now
Ok, Ok, Ok
You will never stop it now
You never stop it now
Cause I don't want no Robocop
You move is like a Robocop
When did you become a Robocop?
Somebody please make her stop
Make her stop, stop…


As I hop on this red eye flight with all red eyes
Hoodie over my head, recognize a Jedi
If I go too fast down this road I end up like Left Eye
I’m wondering would it be better if I left life
My girlfriend know I got a fetish for fine hoes
I'm worldwide so she know I’m gonna find hoes
Sneaking in my iPhone, looking through my call log
It hurts looking at her face to ask her what she crying for
I’m so fresh I’m wondering "why didn’t I design clothes?"
This rap shit is something that you gotta be designed for
Meetings at the label saying they gon' make Sean blow
Turned the radio on and do I hear Sean? No
Man please do not gimmick me, put me on the shelf and not remember me
And treat me like a John Doe
I wish that I could drop my nuts in they tonsils
(ahem) Shut up bitch swallow
And I been signed to Ye for well over a year now
It’s clear now, I'mma focus on my career now
You taught me to create a process
Saying that you changed my life dog it’s me being modest
But honestly I wish that I could take you off tour
Put you in the studio so you could focus more on my shit
And I don’t mean to sound selfish
But I am not an artist that's selfless
I’m feeling like a crab in a bucket
That’s just tryna get it crackin'
Amongst all these fuckin' shellfish
And it’s a dream come true that you signed me
Big Sean, G.O.O.D. Music signee
People asking me how it happened, man I tell 'em
I Rolex-ed the situation and just had perfect timing
And you already know where to find me
Bitch I'm connected to the D like Siamese
So if you see me out of town getting money
Know I do it for my city and I be back very promptly
So say what up if you see us
And the D is burn rubber and the Sean man lead us
Like being undefeated, feeling undefeated
Dick so big I bust a nut for a fetus
Glad to do any interview or dope feature
Come holla at a nigga as I’m trying on sneakers
Niggas making diss records in efforts that I see it
Waiting on my reply but they never will receive it
You are not half of what I am and can’t be it
You are just a hundred-and-one percent bitch
Recognize a star like you pledge to the allegiance
And I don’t want fans, I want believers
Race to success so I'mma keep pedalin'
Cuz my mamara man she deserve everything
So if I find a girl with beauty and brains like her
Then best believe she gon' get a wedding ring
But I don’t know if I believe in love to be honest
Cuz every girl love the headliners
Take her to my hotel all my niggas there
And best believe they gon' give us all a hair line-up
And that’s why girls wanna leave us
Tell 'em where we are but they never gon' believe us
Won’t stop till we end up on that show Cheaters
But I bet you couldn’t spot me if a nigga wore cheetah
And I be in the strip-club Teasers
Giving all the girls what’s needed
Honest dog had so many 
problems dog
I could hand 'em out and be labeled a fuckin' teacher
So respect my hand gesture
I dare any nigga try and come test us
You a mothafuckin' act dog, a A.C.T. that’s why niggas try and test ya
A-Dub how the hell we gon' make a mil
Pay the bills man, I ain’t tryna waste a deal
If you could make a deal believe you could break a deal
And if you can’t keep your promises then don’t say you will
Nigga don't 
say you will


[Verse 1]
Why would she make calls out the blue?
Now I'm awake, sleepless in June
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, unless you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, then play you will, I pray you will
[Verse 2]
Mrs. So Fly crash-lands in my room
Can't waste no time, she might leave soon
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, you do
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, one day you will, I pray you will
[Verse 3]
When I grab your neck, I touch your soul
Take off your cool then lose control
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, unless you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, I pray you will, I pray you will
[Verse 4]
I wish this song would really come true
I admit I still fantasize about you, about you
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, you will, you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don’t say you will, unless you will, I pray you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, you will, you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don’t say you will
Hey hey hey hey…
Hey hey hey hey
Don’t, don’t, don’t, don’t say
Keep the music on
This is a
This song was written for
A special moment in my life
Someone so special, that I love forever
And you know like, when you break up with somebody
And you have those times where you wanna see ‘em again
And you’re trying to make plans on a Friday night, in New York City
And you clear your whole schedule for this person, even though you’re not together no more
‘Cause there’s nothing better than, someone you know and love
Even if you know you can’t love them no more
You can’t love them no more
Today, take presidents over anybody you dating or going out with or just hooking up with
And she knows who she is
To have someone so special in your life, that you’re inspired by them
I ask myself, as I date
What am I looking for?
The requirement of this position is inspirement
The requirement is inspirement
And I am higher in
But also firing
Also firing, firing
I wanted to express that story better, it didn’t come out as good as I wanted
Wasn’t the point as I wanted to make it for my favorite story and for my ode to my loves


[Intro: Kanye West (D'Banj)]
GOOD Music, Yeezy
(I'm D'Banj)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
If you ask me
Anybody who ain’t tell you you was beautiful today need their ass beat
As we proceed,
 Island breeze, light the weed
I couldn’t find the words on how I feel
But what I lacked in skill I made up for in real
Time, the most precious thing a man could give
Because what she givn' back is why that man can live
We need to take a break, minus the screech, oh
Find a resort, what? Private beach, Oooh
Pina colada sippin', by the sunset
My mission is to find every position, we ain't done yet
[Hook : D'banj]
Take my heart, take my love
Take my body, come build my home
Stay with me di Iyawo mi
Cause you love me
I will be your Scape goat honey
Cause you came through for me
You gave me break through baby
 (x2)
[Verse 2: D'banj]
Baby Boo I can see your eyes
Say you don jam many fools for your life
Them go come as lovers as them disguise
But as time goes by, na your body be the price
Your back side sef...wey you carry na die
That's why sometimes I no dey surprise
Them go say them love you but that na lie
Chop and clean mouth, tell you bye bye
Me sef i no tell you say na me holy pass
Some people dey talk say i dey use jazz
Them say I bush, Some say I razz
Them say I be nobody, I no get class
, Well
I've been bad and I know it and I'm sorry - wanna show it
But no one would give me a chance to prove myself
Despite what you've heard of me
You still went ahead to be with me
You have chosen to be there for me
To you, I make this vow
I say...
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
You getting louder than a two year old drumset
That's a mean gift, you work a mean stick
You’re like a phoenix, you could be my phoenix
Just rub your hands all over my v-neck
Swag, swag on Mach 5
Pac, cause don't it feel like Pac alive?
Feel my apocalypse,
 
feel like I could just
Touch heaven with a Godess in my fingertips
And I’m just trying to kiss every single lips
Hey Yeezy, what’s your next single is?
That D'banj causing hysteria
Soon as we hop of the plane in Nigeria
[Hook]
[Outro]
Omo toh good oh (toh good oh)
Oh nice oh (toh good oh)
Omo toh clean oh (toh clean oh)
Omo to set oh (toh set oh)
Toh sweet oh (toh sweet oh)


School spirit, 
motherfucker
[Hook]
Alpha, step
Omega, step
Kappa, step
Sigma, step
Gangstas walk
Pimps gon' talk
Ooh, hecky nah, that boy is raw
AKA, step
Delta, step
S.G. Rho, step
Zeta, step
Gangstas walk
Pimps gon' talk
Ooh, hecky nah, that boy is raw
[Verse 1]
I'mma get on this TV, mama
I'mma, I'mma put shit down
I'mma make sure these light-skinned niggas
Never, ever, never come back in style
Told 'em I finished school and I started my own business
They say "Oh you graduated?" No, I decided I was finished
Chasing y'all dreams and what you've got planned
Now I spit it so hot, you got tanned
Back to school and I hate it there, I hate it there
Everything I want, I gotta wait a year, I wait a year
This nigga graduated at the top of our class
I went to Cheesecake, he was a motherfucking waiter there
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I got a Jones like Norah for your soror'
Bring more of them girls I've seen in the 
Tammy, Becky, and Laura, or a Shirley
I'm trying to hit it early, like I'm in a hurry
See, that's how dude became the young Pootie Tang: "tippy tow"
Roc-a-fella chain, yeah that's my rapper style
Rosary piece, yeah that's my Catholic style
Red and white One's, yeah that's my Kappa style
And I ain't even pledge
Crack my head on the steering wheel and I ain't even dead
If I could go through all that and still be breathing
Bitch bend over, I'm here for a reason
[Hook]
[Outro x2]
I feel a woo coming on, cuz
I feel a woo coming on, cuz
WOO
There it was
I feel some woos coming on, cuz
A couple woos coming on, cuz
WOO, WOO
There they was


Skit 1: [DeRay Davis]
Now beat that!
And your mothers saying
"Go to college"
So you finish college
And it's wonderful
You feel so good
And after all the partying and craziness
And don't forget about that drug habit you picked up at school
From being around your peers
Hey!
Now you'll get that 25-thousand dollar job a year
And you'll spend all your money on crack cocaine
But, it'll be YOUR money
No more borrowing from mom for my high
So now you get your degree tattooed on your back
`Cause you're so excited about it
If you continue to work at the Gap
After several interviews
Oh my God
You'll come in at a entry-level position
And if you do that
If you kiss enough ass
You'll move up to the next level
Which is being the secretary's secretary
And boy is that great
You can take messages for the secretary
Who NEVER went to college
She's actually the bosses niece!
So now you're part of the family
You know what college does for you?
It makes you really smart, man
You kids wanted to talk in the back of the class?
Not me, I listened
Okay?
I was a Hall-Monitor
This was meant to be
You know how many classes I took?
Extra classes
No, I've never had sex
But, you know what?
My degree keeps me satisfied
When a lady wakes to me says
"You know what's sexy"
No, I don't know what it is
But I bet I can add up all the change in your purse
Very fast


You keep it going man
You keep those books rolling
You pick up all those books that you're gonna read
That you're not 
gonna remember
And you keep it rolling man
You get that associates degree okay?
Then you get your bachelor's degree
Then you get your masters
Then you get your masters, masters
Then you get your doctrine
You go man!
And then when everyone says quit
You show them those degrees man
When everyone says "Hey, you're not working, you're not making any money"
You say "You look at my degrees, and you look at my life."
Yeah, 
I'm 52!
So what? I'm smart, I'm so smart
And I'm in school
All these guys out here making money
Other ways
And I'm spending mine to be smart!
You know why buddy?
Cause when I die buddy
You know what's gonna keep me warm?
That's right, those degrees


[Hook]
I know you see me now right now
[Bridge: Beyoncé]
I got my suit and tie
And I don’t know if y’all know
Well, maybe y’all do
Or maybe y’all don’t
But I don’t really care
It’s how we on it all the time
So I’mma get my money, let’s go
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Now, I’mma need you to kill the hypocrisy
This is an aristocracy
I’m Socrates, but my skin more chocolately
What’s up with who? That’s old news
I’m in a speedboat in my boat shoes
Hah?
 
I swear my whole collection’s so cruise
I might walk in Nobu with no shoes
He just walked in Nobu like it was Whole Foods!
"That nigga crazy - I told you
Immature adult, insecure asshole"
And if you fall on the concrete, that’s your ass fault
If you pass on a Kan beat, that’s your last fault
Get what you ask for, I swear that’s your ass, so
She got a big booty but she couldn’t drop that ass low
Til you take your last ho and rope up all the cash flow
When you getting money, they be all up on your ass, yo
When you getting money cops don’t let a nigga pass go!
Straight to jail
, 
yo, in a hellhole
Right next to Lucifer, tell em I say "hello"
Ask him if I’m-a be there soon and tell him, I said “Hell no”
Yo, what you say when your people get out of jail, huh?
[Bridge: Beyoncé & Kanye]
My niggas is home
I guess I got everything
Everything I want
(Let's go shopping dog, let's celebrate)
But I don’t, no matter how good it gets
(Free Weezy though)
It’ll never be like before
No women in the crowd
Screaming and it’s loud
Doing things not allowed
And I swear it’s going down right now
(You know what it is)
I know one thing, my mama would be proud
And you see me looking up
Cause I know she’s looking down right now
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Pour the champagne, let your watch show
Shorty got a man watch; wrist look colossal
I admit my first watch was a Fossil
Now I’m in the Louvre looking for fossils
Attention to detail is so uncanny
And the whip’s on the Sprewells, it’s so un-Camry
Somebody need to put us on camera
The world of Rollies and everyone families
Stay Jordan fresh, suits and Ferraris
Cute, your shorty watch Barney, we head to Barney's
End up at Marni, Giorgi, and service from Sergio Tacchini
Lamborghini the chain throw off the vertigo
I know the flow just hit a hellified vertical
This the Christ year
, 
last year was magic: 32
Lyrically, can’t none of y’all murder ‘Ye
Cause y’all raps ain’t got no vertebrae
I got style
 -- 
ask June if she heard of me
I killed the fur last Paris, raised the murder rate
First of all, we all know the beats is
Like a mix between Fergie and Jesus
Imagine the direction of this immaculate conception
Every one of His Majesty’s swim parties is pageantries
Cannonball off the diving board when I am bored
All my homies GDs, but I am Lord
Rap god, Greek mythology
And this life too crazy to think logically
Here’s something that you could use an analogy
My life is like a child’s illusions become reality
[Bridge: Beyoncé]
Now go get my throne
Cause I don’t wanna stop
I just go in my zone
And I’m-a make it hot
Til it’s time to go
When it’s time to go
Where you trying to go?
You better act like you can see me
[Kanye West]
Rosewood!
I know you see me!
I know you see me!
I know you see me!
It's like I'm 3D!
 
(x2)
[Verse 3: Big Sean]
Man today I am the freshest in the world
But that's the obvious, damn I look so sexy
And you look like a pile of shit
When I told my ex I loved her she went and married another
And changed her whole name up
You an old Yugoslavi chick
"Be successful," that's what they told me
So everything I D-O now I O.D
They say G.O.O.D. Music like the new Miami Heat
Shit comparin' them to us, man, they gotta add Kobe
Whodie, 
holy moley went from G-shockin' to Rolly
From the D, Coppin' in Beverly Hills, I'm Axel Foley
Nah, nah baby boy you Jody
 and the party they all know me
Yeah, I saw your ass in line, boy, you was lookin' like the old me
Presidential suit, my girls Michelle in Chanel
She gave me designer uh she keep it au natural
I say it again I'm chasin' cheese, dodgin' rat traps
Chasin' pussy you might end up with a Kat Stacks
Nasty trick, you's a nasty chick
Oooh! You know I like that nasty shh
Got it made it every way, gettin' paid every day
What Sean sound like 'Ye protégé
Nah, he sound like he a pro to me
"I know Kanye a jerk" -
How could you say that?
He rode me and my mama around in his Maybach
What kind of jerk is that?
What kind of jerks is y'all?
Fuck it if he a jerk, I bet you jerk him off
Bet you take it off and chase him through the mall
We workin' twice as hard so everything come in twos
Double drinks, double girls
We be gettin' paid like W-2s
Rep Westside, throwin' up W's
We love you Sean! I love you too!
[Outro: Kanye West]
Hey, feel like one of those old R. Kelly joints, right
I bet they put me back on the cover of 
 now
I know 
 magazine calling right now
You looking good today, too
I like that
You got your new suit on
And she got the extra cute on
I know you thinking: “This that Yeezy we all love”
I’m back, baby! We back, baby!
Uncle Charlie, by the way
And I’mma let you finish, but I got Beyoncé on the track
That’s what it is
Black excellence, baby - we the elite
We the greatest in the world


[Intro]
I'm cold! (Yeah)
[Hook: Lil Wayne]
I got the right to put up a fight
But not quite cause you cut off my light
But my sight is better tonight
And I might see you in my nightmare
Ooh, how'd you'd get there
Cause we were once a fairy tale
But this is farewell
[Verse 1]
I got my life and it's my only one
I got the night,
 
I'm running from the sun
So good night,
 
I'm headed out the door..
After tonight there will be no return
After tonight, I'm taking off on the road
I'm taking off on the road
And that you know
[Bridge]
Tell everybody that you know
That I don't love you no more
And that's one thing that you know
[Verse 2]
Okay, I'm back up on my grind
You do you and I'm just gon' do mine
You do you cause I'm just gon' be fine
Okay, I got you out my mind
And the night is young, the drinks is cold
The stars is out, I'm ready to go
You always thought I was always wrong
Well, now you know
[Bridge] + [Hook]
[Verse 3: Lil Wayne]
Baby girl I'm finished
I thought we were committed
I thought we were cemented
I really thought we meant it
But now we just repent it
And now we just resent it
The clouds is in my vision
Look how high that I be getting
And it's all because of you
Girl we through
You think your shit don't stank
But you are Misses Pee-Yew
And I don't see you
With me no more
Now tell everybody THAT YOU KNOW
THAT YOU KNOW
[Outro]
THAT YOU KNOW
Tell everybody that you know
That I don't love you no more
And that's one thing THAT YOU KNOW
THAT YOU KNOW
L-L-L-L-LETTING YOU KNOW
Tell everybody that you know
That I don't love you no more
And that's one thing THAT YOU KNOW
THAT YOU KNOW


So many people get caught up in trying to remake their first album and it's impossible for me to make another College Dropout, but I could make the best Graduation and best 808's that I could make. And that's how you, I think, keep advancing as an artist. So few, you know, Hip Hop artists have ever advanced: their songs on their seventh, eight album sound exactly like the songs of their first album. More than a artist, I'm a real person and real people grow and I wanna just sing my growth
[Hook]
I got the right to put up a fight
But not quite cause you cut off my lights
But my sight is better tonight
And I might see you in my nightmare
But how'd you'd get there
Cause we were once a fairy tale
But this is farewell
[Verse 1]
I got my life and it's my only one
I got the night, I'm running from the sun
So good night, I'm headed out the door..
After tonight, there will be no return
After tonight, I'm taking off on the road
I'm taking off on the road
And that you know
That you know
[Bridge]
Tell everybody that you know
That I don't love you no more
And that's one thing that you know
That you know
[Verse 2]
Okay, I'm back up on my grind
You do you and I'm just gon' do mine
You do you and I'm just gon' be fine
Okay, I got you out my mind
And the night is young, the drinks is cold
The stars is out, I'm ready to go
You always thought I was always wrong
Well, now you know
[Bridge 2x]
Tell everybody, everybody that you know
Tell everybody that you know
That I don't love you no more
And that's one thing that you know
That you know
That you know, ohhh


[Intro]
Now ya know ya gotta turn this super loud
C'mon now let's go, uh
[Hook]
Let me hear say "Yeaaah"
"Yeaaah"
[Verse 1]
I know you're wondering
How is Kanye spittin so hot?
Cuz I listen to the ROC
And I listen and watch
And the first thing I copped was a glistening watch
Off that Blueprint money
Yeah I know I'm a dummy
But what I am supposed to tell a girl in the club, why that ass is getting feeled on
What, I bought a couple build-ons?
Seems like I got more brain off my fake chain than my real one
Cuz on the real son
If a girl think you broke, she just wanna fuck and smoke
If you paid then she's thinking bout her children
Feel him?
Prolly not though unless you got dough
You know what I mean
You would think the grass green when you finally get green
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Man I promise, she's so self conscious
She has no idea what she's doing in college
That major that she majored in don't make no money
But she won't drop out, her parents will look at her funny
Now, tell me that ain't insecurrre
The concept of school seems so securrre
Sophmore three yearrrs ain't picked a careerrr
She like fuck it, I'll just stay down herre and do hair
Cause that's enough money to buy her a few pairs of new Airs
Cause her baby daddy don't really care
She's so precious with the peer pressure
Couldn't afford a car so she named her daughter Alexis
She had hair so long that it looked like weave
Then she cut it all off now she look like Eve
And she be dealing with some issues that you can't believe
Single black female addicted to retail and
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Man I promise, I'm so self conscious
That's why you always see me with at least one of my watches
Rollies and Pasha's done drove me crazy
I can't even pronounce nothing, pass that versace!
Then I spent 400 bucks on this
Just to be like nigga you ain't up on this!
And I refuse go to the grocery store
Without some ones thats clean and a shirt with a team
It seems we living the american dream
But the people highest up got the lowest self esteem
The prettiest people do the ugliest things
For the road to riches and diamond rings
We shine because they hate us, floss cause they degrade us
We trying to buy back our 40 acres
And for that paper, look how low we a'stoop
Even if you in a Benz, you still a nigga in a coope
[Hook]
[Intro]
And uh
I decided to stop fuckin with yall
Uh
Wack ass niggas
And uh kill dreams niggas
And since I quit
Everyone that supported me
Thank you very much
And everyone that doubted me, thank you very little


[Refrain: John Legend]
I'm calling (Yeah maybe I'm selfish)
Out to (I want you to myself I can't help it)
All my (Yeah maybe I'm selfish)
Y'all my ladies
And I can't (Maybe I'm selfish)
Let you (I want you to myself, I can't help it)
Be with no one
But me, baby
[Verse 1: T3]
To my thick chicks down in Texas
All the way to New Orleans where the girls cook catfish
And in LA every chick's an actress
Hollywood status with the shaded glasses
To Detroit yeah the place that I rest
Where the ladies got ass to sell a lot sex
And Hot Atlanta y'all is one of the best
Where they speak Southern slang and smoke la cess
And New York women are way too fresh
Too much on your mind let me ease that stress
I wish you all were mine it's so selfish
Maybe I'm feeling myself too much I guess
But to my ladies all across the globe
In small towns that I don't even know
To all local international codes
Whether you see me in streets or catch me at shows
I'm calling
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
And don't be tryin to come around my girl acting like Mr. Friendly
And steal the spotlight like Mr. Bentley
I spotted her like Spud McKenzie
And for them fake boobies I payed them Benjies
Get your own, I got Paris he got Nicky
He tried to get em a clone
He said yeah you know you got extra hoes
And everything you do is extra cold
From the Polo fleece to the Jesus piece
I got family in high places like Jesus' niece
Can I please, say my peace
If y'all fresh to death, then I'm deceased
And this one here is a heat rocks
Spit like a beat box, the way the beat rocks
New version of Pete Rock
But for that Benz I get CL love
So I switch my girls around like 3-el-dub
I'm calling
[Refrain]
[Verse 3: Elzhi]
What up Pam how your little man doing in New Jersey
Last I heard he caught the flu and you was worried
Hope he feels better
And thanks Jonetta from Cleveland
For that good head in your Jetta better believe it
Shanice you're my piece from Compton
Before I'm off the plane make sure you cop some trees and spark up
Danielle ATL got them pictures in the mail
You sealed with a kiss and you send it with Chanel
You looking good in that one showing off your body
Had a Beverly Hills Mami that would buy me Carti's
Take me to after parties her name was Carrie
And it sucks that we didn't keep in touch I'm sorry
But, hey Kim how's Minneapolis, you so pretty
Hate to show off your titties for silly classes
Cause I love you girls though you ain't mine
I wish my arms was long enough to hug you all of the same time
[Refrain x2]


[Produced by Kanye West, Daft Punk, Gesaffelstein, Brodinski, Arca and Mike Dean]
[Intro: Beenie Man]
Relivin' the past?
Your loss!
[Verse 1: King Louie]
Rockstar bitch call me Elvis
M.O.B, she call me selfish
Success got 'em jealous
Shorty's killin', while I'm drillin'
Tattoos, how they break the news
It was real if you made the news
Last night my bitches came in twos
And they both sucked like they came to lose
Dropped out the first day of school
Cause niggas got cocaine to move
I be goin' hard, I got a name to prove
Killin' 'em, honey how I make the pain improve
[Hook: King Louie]
We can send this bitch up, it can't go down
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
This the greatest shit in the club
Since "In Da Club"
It's so packed I might ride around
On my bodyguard's back like Prince in the club
She say "Can you get my friends in the club?"
I say "Can you get my Benz in the club?"
If not, treat your friends like my Benz
Park they ass outside 'til the evenin' end
When I go raw, I like to leave it in
When I wake up, I like to go again
When I go to work, she gotta call it in
She can't go to work, same clothes again
And her heart colder than the souls of men
Louboutin on the toes again
Tight dress dancin' close to him
Yeezus just rose again
[Hook]
[Outro: Beenie Man]
Memories don't live like people do
They always 'member you
Whether things are good or bad
It's just the memories that you have


[Hook]
How did I end up right here with you?
After all the things that I've been through?
It's been one of those days you try and forget about
Take a shot and let it out,
 let's get right, now that I'm here, baby
Show me a good time
[Verse 1]
I live for the nights that I can't remember
With the people that I won't forget
Spending all the money that I just worked my ass off for
Doing things that I won't regret
I've been waiting way too long, long, long, long
Telling everybody that I know we about to be on, on, on, on
I ain't trying to look like I lied to these niggas that I came up with
That's my team, never would I let a woman come between
What we doing right now, this our dream
Wu-Tang Clan: niggas want that cream
I'm the Osiris to this shit right now
Go to guy for the hits right now
Whatever you wanna drink girl, pick right now
If you can't hold your liquor, better quit right now
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
How about you and all your morals in that outfit that you borrowed?
Make the most out of tonight, and worry bout it all tomorrow
Understand girl, we fam girl, can't get me right and not do Wayne
Cash Money, Young Money, pop champagne
Presidential suite, girl: Barack Hussein
Tell me can we kick it like Ali Shaheed and Phife Dawg
People really hate it when a backpack rapper get rich and start living that life, dawg
Feels like when you get into that paper, hip hop hates you
They would do it just like I do it if they could: it's in our nature
Young and rich and out of control
Out in LA blowing clouds of the killa
I came up in the underground though, so I'mma spend another 10,000 for Dilla
Call me overrated or created or too jaded
Because anyway you put it, bitch, I made it
Yup!
[Hook]


[Intro]
Aiiyo GRAV, shiiit
Aiiyo GRAV man; Aiiyo who's laughing man?!
Aiiyo get up nigga man it's time to go do this shit bee
Aiiyo GRAV, Aiiyo GRAV wake up man
Aiiyo GRAV bee, wake up nigga
Yo! GRAV what the fuck is goin' on man?!
What the fuck man?! Why is this nigga shakin' like that?!
Aiiyo wassup with this nigga's eyes yo!
Aiiyo somethin' wrong with GRAV yo!
Aiiyo! *intelligible dialog* GRAV nigga
Yo! This nigga's shakin' yo!
Yo! GRAV! What the fuck bee?!
Wake the fuck up nigga!
Aiiyo! somethin' wrong with GRAV!
Somethin' wrong with GRAV!
[Verse 1]
Now often goes me like yo! here goes
That ox again sucking up all the oxygen from Earth
Givin' birth to phat styles so hide when I release my carbon dioxide
Detrimental to your health, tonic makes flesh bubble and boil
Fools quote in coils
So now they're strong on a power that's god
Lay in hardly any other can fathom
Watch me gather 'em up
In my congregation they'll be no hesitation
In my nation's reservation
That means I begin the mutating of a lyrical terror
All wack shit will get severed
Brain cells be in the process of amputation
All cerebral penetration must cease
I release a form of verbal death that by far
Will leave your whole mental scared
[Hook]
Sick thoughts on my mind x 7
With no self control
[Verse 2]
I have tendencies to make wack MCs' backbones break, bend
As my rap style ascends
We can rip limb from limb
Body parts get severed from my lyrical endeavors
We ain't all in this together
Because self-made get to top mountain peaks
While all you others stay weak
See it's survival of the fittest
So I rid dis fan of every hip-hop coal who ain't real
When punks try to get rid of me
The result is molecular instability
The outcome from a vet verses molecule
Disperse the atoms split from adoption
So now capture my dreams and jack me in the veins
Let me enter your blood stream
Kid I watch your head swell
As the game gets hard and I bombard your brain cells
See my prediction of the mental constriction
Is the restriction of train of thought have you in your corpse
In the fact that this is real --
You say virtual reality so kid why would you battle me?
See I'm the only crowd pleaser
Your skull will finally bust and you'll catch amnesia
Friends and family you won't be remembering
I leave you comatose trembling
[Bridge]
Aiiyo this nigga ain't gettin' up man
Man, Yo! GRAV get up!
Sick thoughts on my mind
What the fuck?! Stop playin' man, yo!
Fuck that shit man!
Quit pla- man fuck it get this nigga's wallet then
Sick thoughts on my mind x 2
[Verse 3]
Psychology and Chemistry is my claim to fame
Mixing lyrical concoctions for the brain
Through aural intake metamorphosis starts
Veins steadily pump poison through my heart
Check my cardiological expand
Forming to be on top of then mortal man
My skin transforms into flammable gases
Everything I touch disintegrates into ashes
So surpass this, lyrical mics that melt in hands
Burning more niggas glass jaws back to sand
Scorch in the gorge of the Earth
Agriculture from these fake vulture niggas tryin' to feed of the land
Death by cremation to those who reprimand me
Axing out clear rouge styles that's uncanny
They're scared, when ever I walk the streets
My feet leave red burnt marks on concrete
Sick thoughts on my mind [laughter]
Get up GRAV man
Yo! GRAV get up man
Aiiyo GRAV....
...Ooh shit!
Yo! what the fuck is wrong with you man?


I brought you brothers here to start our own fraternity
Broke Phi Broke, we ain't got it
Broke Phi Broke (we ain't got it)
No, we have no money
We are sharin' jeans
If I go outside, I got the only clothing on
How many cars do we own? (None!)
How many cars do we own? (None, sir!)
Should we let our woman go and be with the cat in the car?
Yes, we will
Why? Because we can't afford gas. Say it with me!
(We can't afford no gas!)
Say it!
(We can't afford no gas!)
So we ain't drivin'!


We broke, broke broke phi broke
(We ain't got it)
Broke, broke, broke phi broke
(We ain't got it)
Don't spend no money
Ain't got no clothes
Ain't got no cars
Ain't got no hoes
We broke, broke, broke phi broke
(We ain't got it)
Broke, broke, broke phi broke
(We ain't got it)
Got no money (got no money)
We got no clothes (got no clothes)
Ain't got no cars (got no cars)
Can't get no hoes
We broke, broke, broke, broke, broke
Buncha niggas
Broke, broke, broke, broke, broke!


[Verse 1]
Why would she make calls out the blue
Now I'm awake, sleepless in you
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, unless you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, then play you will, I pray you will
[Verse 2]
Mrs. So Fly crash-lands in my room
Can't waste no time, she might leave soon
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, you do
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, one day you will, I pray you will
[Verse 3]
When I grab your neck, I touch your soul
Take off your cool then lose control
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, you will you will
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, if you will, I pray you will
[Verse 4]
I wish this song would really come true
I admit I still fantasize about you, about you
Hey hey hey hey
Don't say you will, you will, you will
Hey hey hey hey
Please say you will, for real, I pray you will
[Instrumental Outro]


[Verse one]
What a 
 that I'm living in
Will the rainstorms ever end?
Still I fell my path narrow
 
I run again
See happiness is gone again
And then you see 'em
Grey clouds up above man
Metaphor to my life man
Still I fell my heart stronger then it's ever been
Strong will till my journey ends
'Til then I roll
 
More then I've ever rolled
Not pills but the Mary, though
Still I feel my eyes heavy when the days go
Nothing helping with my head dose
But I ain't sleep
 
Awake in another state
Living in a new space
Still fell my mind running at a steady pace
God help me so I'll win the race
 
'Til then I call
[Hook]
The sky might fall, The sky might fall
But I'm not worried at all
 C'mon C'mon
The 
 might fall, The sky might fall
But I'm not worried at all
[Bridge]
I let them know some
, let them know some, let them know some
You can listen up, listen up, listen up, listen uuup
Hey I let them know some, let them know some, let them know some
You can listen up, listen up, listen up, listen uuup
Grey clouds took together fam
Lightning piercing to another land
Over with the desert with the lost play
Soul searching each in every way
An then you see tha
Awesome sounds so profound, when it
It'll grip you did you see it
If you hear you can feel it too
Something special I am running to
'Til then I go
Away very far away
To another universe where all the people say
Is the new new place for the special to embrace
Like a martian who seemingly
Wandered out of place
Take what you need from the belly of the hope
Even if you dry you'll be floating high above it
You can say Bye Bye Bye
Sky might be falling but remember you can fly high
[Hook]
[Bridge]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook: Jamie Foxx]
(Are you going to be, say that you're gonna be)
She said she want some Marvin Gaye
Some Luther Vandross
A little Anita
Will definitely set this party off right
She said she want some Ready For The World
, 
some New Edition
Some Minnie Riperton will definitely set this party off right
[Intro: Kanye West]
Yes it will
It definitely will!
You know what I told her?
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I told her to "drive over in your new whip
Bring some friends you cool with
I'mma bring the Cool Whip
Then I want you to strip
See you is my new chick
So we get our grind on"
She be grabbing
Calling me Biggie like Shyne home
Man I swear she fine, 
homes
Why she always lying though?
Telling me them diamonds
When she know they rhinestones
She got a light-skinned friend, look like Michael Jackson
Got a dark-skinned friend, look like Michael Jackson
I played Ready for the World
She was ready for some action
My dogg said you ain't a freak
So you gotta prove my man wrong
I'mma play this Vandross
You gon' take your pants off
I'mma play this Gladys Knight
Me and you gon' get right
[Hook]
[
Verse 2: Twista
]
Got you looking at the gliss' on my hands and wrists
While I'm laying back, smoking on my cannabis
When it come to rocking the rhythm like Marvin and Luther
I can tell you ain't no messin' with Kan-man and Twist
From the Chi
, 
and I be
Sipping Hennessy, play some R&B
Try and smoke a B
, looking properly
Feeling on a G? And always (
Well Well Well Well Well
)
Come with me and 
sip on some Evelyn Champagne
You ain't know Twista can work it like The Whispers
?
Hit the stop light, get into some Isley's
The rims still moving so I'm bumping a little Spinners
While I'm 
smoking on a B
, dipping through the streets
Bumping R&B, and I got the heat 
on them 23's
And I do it (well well, well well)
Put my Earth in the Wind smokin' Fire
Let me 
get your sheets wet
 
listening to Keith Sweat
Put you in a daze with 
Maze
Fulfilling our every temptation, slow-jamming, having deep sex
You 
Ready for the World
, girl?
Come on over, make me touch you all over your body, 
baby don't say no to me
An every moment you controlling me
 I'm loving the way you be holding me when I be listening to 
Jodeci
And when I come over and bend your ass
You be bumpin' Teddy Pendergrass
I done hit it from the back
 to 
the melody of "Roll It Slow"
Now I gotta go up in it fast, but I'mma finish last
No matter how much of a thug, you see
I still spit it like its R&B
, go to the club with me
And with some Luther come on
, 
I hope you feelin' me
 and still gon' be in love with me
[Hook]
[
Verse 3: Twista
]
Baby drop another slow jam
And all us lovers, need to hold hands
And if you ain't got no man, hop up in my Brougham
I keep it pimping like an old man
You gots to roll with the plan
Cause after that, then I
Take it to the dome
Then I got to bone
Stay up in the zone, got to get you home
Gotta run up on, and I do it
Baby drop another slow jam
And all us lovers, need to hold hands
And if you ain't got no man, hop up in my Brougham
I keep it pimping like an old man
You gots to roll with the plan
Cause after that, then I
Take you to my home
We can get it on
Disconnect the phone
Trying to get you boned
I'mma make you moan


[Intro: Jamie Foxx]
Kanye, it's Foxx, man
I'm just sayin' I was talkin' to the girls you know
And we don't put enough emphasis on the ladies sometime
You know, I was talkin' to this girl
She was talkin' about the music all fast in the club you know
She gotta drink water cause she thirsty
She danced like ninety-two hundred songs back to back
With ain't nobody really try to find out what she feelin'
Like how she feel... you know what she told me?
Are you gonna be? (Check it out, this is what she said)
Say that you're gonna be (Oooo, oooo, oooo, oooo, oooooo)
[Hook: Jamie Foxx (Luther)]
She said she want some Marvin Gaye, some Luther Vandross
A little Anita will definitely set this party off right
(are you gonna be, are you gonna be, are you gonna be
Are you gonna be, are you gonna be, well well well well)
She said she want some Ready For The World, some New Edition
Some Minnie Ripperton will definitely set this party off right
(are you gonna be, are you gonna be, are you gonna be
Are you gonna be, are you gonna be, well well well well)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
It definitely will
You know what I told her
I told her to drive over in yo new whip, bring some friends you cool wit
I'mma bring the cool whip, then I want you to strip
See you is my new chick, so we get our grind on
She be grabbin me, callin me Biggie like Shyne home
Man I swear she fine homes, why she always lyin though?
Tellin me them diamonds, when she know they rhinestones
She got a light-skinned friend look like Michael Jackson
Got a dark-skinned friend look like Michael Jackson
I played Ready For The World, she was ready for some action
My dog said you ain't no freak , so you bout to prove my man wrong
I'mma play this Vandross, you gon' take yo pants off
I'mma play this Gladys Knight, me and you gon get right
[Hook - Jamie Foxx]
[Bridge: Jamie Foxx]
Smokey Robinson
Smokey Robinson
Freddie Jackson
Everything, everything (Well well well well)
Smokey Robinson
Ashford & Simpson (Are you gonna be)
Set the party, really set the party off right
(are you gonna be, are you gonna be, are you gonna be
Are you gonna be, are you gonna be)
Yes it will, yes it will (Well well well well)
Al Green, OH!
Al Green, OHHHHH YEAH!!!
OOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!
Whatcha know about the Isley Brothers?
[Aisha Tyler]
Now Kanye, I know I told you to slow it down
It's good, it's all good, it's beautiful
But now I need you to do it faster baby
Can you please - do it faster, do it faster
[Kanye West]
Damn baby, I can't do it that fast but I know somebody who can, Twista!
[Verse 2: Twista]
Got you looking at the glist on my hands and wrist
While I'm layin' back smoking on my cannabis
When it come to rockin the rhythm like Marvin and Luther
I can tell you ain't no messin' with Kan man and Twist
In the Chi and I be sippin Hennessey - play some R&B
While I smoke a b - you can preferably find that I'm a G
And all this (well well well well)
Come wit me and sip on some Evelyn Champagne
You ain't know Twista could work it like the Whispers?
Hit the stop light, move it to some Isaac
His rims still movin so I bump a lil' Spinners
While I'm smoking on a b - dippin through the streets
Bumpin R&B - and I got the heat - on the 23's
And I do it (well well well well)
Wit my Earth in the Wind smoking Fire
Let me get ya sheets wet listenin to Keith Sweat
Put you in a daze wit Maze
Fulfilling her wit every temptation, slow jam, and havin deep sex
You ready for the world girl, baby come on go wit me
I touch you all over your body baby don't say no to me
And every moment controlling me
I love the way you be holdin me when I be listenin to 
Jodeci
And when I come over and bend ya ass, 
you be bumpin Teddy Pendergrass
I done hit it from the back, to the melody and rode it slow
Now I got to go up in it fast, but I'mma finish last
No matter how much of a thug you see
I still spit it like it's R&B
, come to the club wit me
And when some Luther come on I hope you feelin me
And still will be in love wit me
[Hook - Jamie Foxx]
Bridge 2: Jamie Foxx ad-libs (w/ female singer)
[Hook - Jamie Foxx]


[Hook: MIA]
No one on the corner has swagger like us
Swagger like us, swagger, swagger like us
[Intro: Pusha T]
No one on the corner got swagger like us
You see, the rap game can't give you swagger
The streets can't give you swagger
Believe it or not, money can't even give you swagger
Swagger something you gotta be born with
I think it's safe to say that everybody on this track right here
Definitely got they swagger intact you know
Without further ado, Re-Up Gang Records
[Verse 1 : Pusha T]
Pusha Ton is in the building
Powder to the motherfucking ceiling
I'm so consistent every verse
I prototype this coke flow
Y'all just my children
Don't get caught up in your feelings because
You just original fakes and I am the cause
If you follow fashion, you can follow my bars
If not, get your Hypebeast on, follow the blogs
(No one on the corner) has swagger like such
Two diamond chains, my neck on this double dutch
Standing in my action figure pose for them hoes
A.P.C. Denim the tops is Play Cloths (yeah)
The trend-humper vs. the trend-setter
The CL is V-12, the V for vendetta
Til the Casket Drops in '09
The meaning of a classic is defined, yes
[Hook] x2
[Bridge]
Til the Casket Drops coming soon
Play Clothes in stores
If you addicted to the fly go get that shit
You know how we do
All this money
[Verse 2: Ab-Liva]
No one on the corner got swagger like us
Cocaine cowboys too much to flush
You can't comprehend all the paper I touch
All the jewels when the colors then they change yes flush
I see, I want, I cop, hard-top
I bust a rhymes tear the roof off I must
Lamborghini two-door, drug dealer's rush
Bad bitch, shotgun, new Louis Vuitton clutch
Purse says Hermes not Von Dutch
I Autobahn lean on the clutch like a crutch
??? give it to 'em pinched right
Gucci hard-bottoms, names scribbled in the inside
See you haters through the G's on the aviator lenses
My friends in Benzes, three M's on the hood emblem
Got the curtains pulled back so the sun shines and it's just me shimmering
With a whole lot of women friends
[Hook] x4
[Verse 3: Malice]
I say it's more about style rather than fashion
It's class when you show a whole cash without flashin'
I can't even grab on they ass without askin'
The '09 Jag, look what the cat dragged in
My past no good, my present still shameful
The fact I'm in this nose should show that I'm no angel
By far my baddest bitch was Anglo
Met her in London Fog, Burberry raincoat
We ain't in the same boat, throw on the life jacket
Voted for Barack, McCain was my tax bracket though
I Sarah Palin hoes, kick 'em out, leave the clothes
Back to the pipeline, luckily I'm twinkletoes
I hold the flask with a wrinkled nose
My connect basis is a need to know
The gavel slam and I'm free to go
It couldn't have ended on a sweeter note (yes)
[Hook] x2


[Produced by Kanye West, Mike Dean & No I.D.]
[Bridge: Swizz Beatz]
One hand in the air if you don't really care
Two hands in the air if you don't really care
It's like that sometimes, I mean ridiculous
It's like that sometimes, this shit 
ridiculous
One hand in the air if you don't really care
Middle finger in the air if you don't really care
It's like that sometimes, man, ridiculous
Life can be sometimes ridiculous
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I'm so appalled, Spalding ball
Balding, Donald Trump taking dollars from y'all
Baby, you're fired, your girlfriend hired
But if you don't mind, I'mma keep you on call
We above the law, we don't give a fuck about y'all
I got dogs that'll chew a fucking hole through the wall
But since they all lovers, I need more rubbers
And if I don't use rubbers, need more covers
Housekeeping, I mean goddamn
One time let it be a bad bitch sweeping
That know we get O's like Cheerios
That know because they seen us in the videos
That know the day that you play me
Would be the same day MTV play videos
That was a little joke, voila
Praises due to the most high, Allah
Praises due to the most fly, Prada
Baby, I'm magic, tada
Address me as your highness, high as United
Thirty-thousand feet up and you are not invited
Niggas be writing bullshit like they gotta work
Niggas is going through real shit, man, they out of work
That's why another goddamn dance track gotta hurt
That's why I'd rather spit something that got a purp'
[Hook]
Champagne wishes
, 
thirty white bitches
I mean this shit is fucking ridiculous
Five star dishes
, 
different exotic fishes
Man this shit is fucking ridiculous
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
How should I begin this? I'm just so offended
How am I even mentioned by all these fucking beginners?
I'm so appalled, I might buy the mall
Just to show niggas how much more I have in store
I'm fresher than you all, so I don't have to pause
All of y'all can suck my balls through my drawers
Dark Knight feeling, die and be a hero
Or live long enough to see yourself become a villain
I went from the favorite to the most hated
But would you rather be underpaid or overrated?
Moral victories is for minor league coaches
And 'Ye already told you we major, you cockroaches
Show me where the boats is,
 
Ferrari Testarossas
And Hammer went broke so you know I'm more focused
I lost 30 mil, so I spent another 30
Cause unlike Hammer, thirty million can't hurt me
Fucking insane, the fuck am I saying?
Not only am I fly, I'm fucking not playing
All these little bitches too big for they britches
Burning they little bridges,
 
fucking ridiculous
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Pusha T]
Success is what you make it,
 
take it how it come
A half a mil in twenties like a billion where I'm from
An arrogant drug dealer, the legend I become
CNN said I'd be dead by 21
Blackjack, I just pulled an ace
As you looking at the king in his face
Everything I dream, motherfuckers, I'm watching it take shape
While to you I'm just a young rich nigga that lacks faith
Range Rove, leather roof, love war, fuck a truce
Still move a bird like I'm in bed with Mother Goose
Them hoes coming in a baker's dozen
Claiming they was with me when they know they really wasn't
I keep the city's best, never said she was the brightest
So if you had her too, it don't affect me in the slightest
I never met a bitch that didn't need a little guidance
So I dismiss her past until she disappoints your highness
I speak the gospel, hostile
Tony doing time for what he did to nostrils
Paranoid mind, I'm still under the watchful
Eye of the law
, aspire for more
Them kilos came, we gave you Bobby Brown jaw
Flaws ain't flaws when it's you that makes the call
Flow similar to the legends of the falls
Spill it, I own you all, yeah
[Bridge]
[Verse 4: Cyhi The Prynce]
Hah, I am so outrageous
I wear my pride on my sleeve like a bracelet
If God had an iPod, I'd be on his playlist
My phrases amazes the faces in places
The favorite,
 
hah, my cup overrunneth with hundreds
Dummy, 
damn, it's hard not for me to waste it
The new Commandment: "Thou shalt not hate, kid"
My movement is like the civil rights, I'm Ralph David
Abernathy, so call my lady Rosa Parks
I am nothing like them niggas, baby, those are marks
I met this girl on Valentine's Day, fucked her in May
She found out about April, so she chose to march
Hah, damn another broken heart
I keep bitches by the twos, nigga, Noah's ark
I got a seven on me, I call my 'dro Lamar
Plus a Trojan in my pocket, Matt Leinart
G-A-T in the Pathfinder
Cause you haters got PhDs
Y'all just some major haters and
 
some math minors
Tiger Woods, don't make me grab iron
[Hook: RZA]
Ayo, 
champagne wishes and thirty white bitches
You know the shit is fucking ridiculous
Cars for the missus and furs for the mistress
You know that shit is fucking ridiculous
[Bridge]


[Intro]
Yeah, DC
Stand up for your boy Ka Ree
I go by the name of Kanye To The
The Roc is in the building
And as far as I'm concerned, we about to bring that real soul back to the game
John Legend on the backgrounds by the way
Let's go
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
From what I hear Kanye is killing the game very bad
My girl rocking the little lamb that Mary had
A l ittle bit of Ghost’s style mixed with Mos's style
I'm versatile I'm the poster child
Getting cheese so I'm suppose to smile, get it
We making hits like Sosa now, hit it
And I hate when girls acting bougie as hell
And I already seen them naked like Blu Cantrell
If I talk to people like they stupid as hell
Do that mean God gone make my kids be stupid as well?
Well, our father please forgive me
I'm sinner slash winner slash soul inventer
[Refrain]
It's so soulful man, it's so soulful man
So soulful man
And when you hear it is where it feels like soul food man
It was so soulful man
It's so soulful man, it's so soulful man
And right here is where it feels like soul food man
[Verse 2: 
Consequence
]
Look my Mommy don't be playing cause she know I got my game in tact
I spit them lines that make a rapper have a brain attack
And chickens know I'm gonna do it how I wanna do it
And miss communication, no we never run into it
I got chicks like Simone and Cala
Stay with lip gloss and Fendi bag beside her
And your girl said you ain't ready for me
I'm in love so Mommy got me singing Tina Marie
How you bomb in Giovanni, she in Gucci and Prada
Chilling in a Mirada, studying like a scholar
So I don't even bother, I be popping my collar
I can get into your soul when I call you tomorrow
Come on
[Refrain]
[Bridge: John Legend]
I know you got a lot of stress today
Let's hit the party like we just got paid
And if you really want to get away
And say yeah, yeah
Got people on your back constantly
And you never get a second to breathe
You know you gotta get a way with me so say
Yeah, yeah
[Verse 3: Consequence]
I'mma worry about the trade then ball then try and trade it all
I'd rather catch up on my paper and invade the mall
You sore losers picked the wrong guy to take the fall
I probably trade in the fall what they made in the fall
Went from a never quite was to an overnight was
Cause the way I flip metaphor nobody quite does
By the time I leave the club, I'm wearing a public arms
Cause he must have been a pro the way see the pros and cons
They calling this the army
Money boys are we say jay b hopping down when I'm trying do my laundry
But I ain't even sorry for the way I get my dough
Cause J, Khayree and Kan got that food for your soul
[Refrain]


[Intro: Kanye West]
La, la, la, la, la and everybody say
La, la, la, la, la I know you, I know you
[Kanye West]
I know you're thinking, thinking that it must be
Armor All flow cause it never get rusty
I ain't gotta say it, man dawg trust me
Bust somebody head, GLC
 
where was we
Still rock the Prada 'fore that, rock the Starter
Niggas had the Georgetown, the Magic way harder
Thinking back to the projects, and they way they tore 'em all up
Like when I do a project, and come back and tear the mall up
[Hook: Common and Kanye]
We comin' from the South (side), South (side)
South (side), South (side)
South (side), South (side)
South (side), Side of the Chi
[Verse 1: Common]
The broads, the cars, 
the half moon, the stars
I'm like Jeff Fort
 the way I get behind bars
Burn CDs with no regard for the stars
Come to the crib with conflict diamonds and they ours
Back in '94 they call me Chi-town's Nas
Now them niggas know I'm one of Chi-town's gods
We eatin' Joe, you still talkin' no carbs
A conscious nigga with mac like Steve Jobs
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Your fly is open,
 
McFly
The crowd is open, I think I know why
I'm back from the future seen it with my own eyes
And yep, I'm still the future of the Chi
Back in college I had to get my back up off the futon
I knew that I couldn't cop a coup with no coupons
Look at that neutron
 
on his green like croutons
People asking him, "do you have any grey poupon"
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Common]
You in the building but the buildings falling
You wouldn't be ballin' if your name was Spalding
My mind get flooded I think about New Orleans
Bout to school y'all niggas, you should call him August
I'm the sun that goes down but I'm still revolving
Southside walk it out
, 
while still you're crawlin'
If rap was Harlem, I be James Baldwin
With money in the bank like G. Rap
, we're calling
[Hook]
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
With niggas masked up like Phantom of the Opera
Dreaming of the day they push a phantom to the operas
Can't wait till they say, "Ye ran up at the Oscars"
Poppa, I heard his life is like a movie
Like when Em played him and Mekhi played a rasta
Mexicans gonna love it like it was for La Raza
But this is for the mobsters, Holla
We some true Chi-town legends, accept no imposters
[Hook]
[Verse 5: Common]
The un-American idol
, 
tower like the Eiffel
Lean wit it, rock wit it,
 
Black like the Disciples
Know when to use a bible, and when to use a rifle
You rap like you should be on the back of a motorcycle
Caught a case of robbery, and Beat It like Michael
Your career is a typo, mine was written like a haiku
I write to Do the Right Thing like Spike do
Through Conflicts that's Crucial and Drama that's Psycho
[Hook]
[Outro]
We’re coming from the—-hey
[scratches] Spice it up
You might have to spice it up
Spice it up, spice it up
Take your life and
Yo, we’re coming from the—-hey
We’re coming from the—-hey


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook x2]
I've been workin' this graveshift and I ain't made shit
I wish I could buy me a spaceship and fly past the sky
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
If my manager insults me again
I will be assaulting him
After I fuck the manager up
Then I'm gonna shorten the register up
Let's go back, back to the Gap
Look at my check, wasn't no scratch
So if I stole, wasn't my fault
Yeah I stole, never got caught
They take me to the back and pat me
Askin' me about some khakis
But let some black people walk in
I bet you they show off their token blackie
Oh now they love Kanye, let's put him all in the front of the store
So I'm on break next to the "No Smokin'" sign with a blunt in the mall
Takin' my hits, writing my hits
Writin' my rhymes, playin' my mind
This fuckin' job can't help him
So I quit, y'all welcome
Y'all don't know my struggle
Y'all can't match my hustle
You can't catch my hustle
You can't fathom my love dude
Lock yourself in a room doing 5 beats a day for 3 summers
That's a Different World like Cree Summer's
I deserve to do these numbers
"The kid that made that deserves that Maybach!"
So many records in my basement
I'm just waiting on my spaceship
[Hook]
[Verse 2: GLC]
And I didn't even try to work a job
Represent the mob
At the same time thirsty on the grind
Chi state of mind
Lost my momma, lost my mind
My life, my love, that's not mine
"Why you ain't signed?"
Wasn't my time
Leave me alone, work for y'all
Half of it's yours, half of it's mine
Only one to ball
Never one to fall
Got to get mine
Got to take mine
Got a Tec-9
Reach my prime
Got to make these haters respect mine
In the mall until 12 when my schedule had said 9
Putting them pants on shelves
Waiting patiently I ask myself
Where I want to go, where I want to be
Life is much more than running in the streets
Holla at 'Ye, hit me with the beat
Put me on my feet
Sound so sweet
Yes I'm the same ol' G, same goatee
Staying low key, nope
Holler at God "Man why'd you have to take my folks?"
Hope to see Freddie G., 
Yusef G
Love my G, Rolly G
Police watch me smoke my weed, count my G's
Got a lot of people counting on me
And I'm just trying to find my peace
Should've finished school like my niece
Then I finally wouldn't use my piece (blaw!)
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Consequence]
I remember having to take the dollar cab
Coming home real late at night
Standing on my feet all damn day
Trying to make this thing right
And having one of my co-workers say "Yo, you look just like
This kid I seen in an old Busta Rhymes video the other night"
Well easy come, easy go, how that saying goes
No more broad service, cars, and them TV shows
I had all that snatched from me
A&Rs and they faculties all turn their back on me
And didn't want to hear a rap from me
So naturally actually had to face things factually
Had to be a catastrophe with the fridges staring back at me
Cause nothing's there, nothing's fair
I don't want to ever go back there
So I won't be taking no days off 'til my spaceship takes off
[Hook]
[Outro: Tony Williams]
I want to fly, I want to fly
I said I want my chariot to pick me up
And take me, brother, for a ride


So after walking through here I decided that I wanted to make sure for anyone that didn’t have tickets tonight that you all could have tickets to the show.
 So anybody who wants to come tonight, 
you can have tickets for the entire office!
But I just wanted to tell you guys: 
I really do believe that the world can be saved through design
, and 
everything needs to actually be “architected.”
 And this is the reason why even some of the first 
DONDA
 employees 
were architects that started designing t-shirts instead of buildings.
 But just to see the work actually be actualized.
If I sit down and talk to 
Oprah
 for 2 hours, the conversation is about realization, self realization, and actually seeing your creativity happen in front of you. 
So the reason why I turn up so much in interviews
  
is because I’ve tasted what it means to create and be able to impact, and affect in a positive way.
And I know that there’s more creativity to happen. And I know that there’s 
traditionalists that hold back the good thoughts and there’s people in offices that stop the creative people, and (who) are intimidated by actual good ideas.
I believe that utopia is actually possible
—
but we’re led by the least noble, the least dignified, the least tasteful, the dumbest, and the most political.
 So in no way am I a politician—I’m usually at my best politically incorrect and very direct. I really appreciate you guys’ willingness to learn and hone your craft, and not be lazy about creation.
I’m very inspired to be in this space. Tonight, this show, if you come see it—um, I’m a bit self conscious because I’m showing it to architects. So the stage does have flaws in it. It’s an expression of emotion so give me a pass on that. And that’s basically all I have to say so thank you very much.


- 
 (My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy)
- 
 (Rick Ross' Mastermind)
- 
 (Late Registration)
- 
 (Late Registration)
- 
 (My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy)
- 
 (Lloyd Banks' H.F.M. 2)
- 
 (Cruel Summer)
- 
 (Cruel Summer)
- 
 (My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy)
- 
 (Graduation)
- 
 (Rhymefest's Blue Collar)


[Intro - Ludacris]
Stand up! Stand up!
Stand up! Stand up!
[Hook - Ludacris (w/ Shawnna)]
When I move, you move (just like that?)
When I move, you move (just like that?)
When I move, you move (just like that?)
Hell yeah, hey DJ bring that back
(When I move, you move) just like that?
(When I move, you move) just like that?
(When I move, you move) just like that?
(Hell yeah, hey DJ bring that back)
[Verse 1 - Ludacris]
How you ain't gone fuck?, bitch I'm me
I'm the goddamn reason you in V.I.P
CEO, you don't have to see ID
I'm young, wild, and strapped like Chi-Ali
BLAOW, 
we ain't got nothing to worry about
Whoop ass, let security carry them out
Watch out for the medallion, my diamonds are reckless
It feels like a midget is hanging from my necklace
I pulled up with a million trucks
Looking, smelling, feeling like a million bucks, ahh
Pass the bottles, the heat is on
We in the huddle all smoking that Cheech & Chong
What's wrong? The club and the moon is full
And I'm looking for a thick, young lady to pull
One sure shot way to get them out of them pants
Take note to the brand new dance
Like this
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Ludacris]
Go on with your big ass, let me see something
Tell your little friend he can quit mean mugging
I'm lit and I don't care what no one thinks
But where the fuck is the waitress at with my drinks?
My people outside and they can't get in
We gon' rush the back door & break them in
The owner already pissed cause we sort of late
But our time and our clothes, got to coordinate
Most girls looking right, some looking a mess
That's why they spilling drinks all over your dress
But Louis Vuitton bras all over your breasts
Got me wanting to put hickeys all over your chest
Ahh, come on we gon' party tonight
Y'all use mouth to mouth bring the party to life
Don't be scared, show another part of your life
The more drinks in your system, the harder the fight
[Hook]
[Bridge - Ludacris]
Stand up! Stand up!
Stand up! Stand up!
[Verse 3 - Ludacris]
Damn right, the fire marshal wanna shut us down
Get us out, so someone can gun us down
We was two songs away from getting so cut up
Now we one song away from tearing the club up
Move over; Luda got something to say
Do it now cause tomorrow ain't promised today
Work with me, let's become one with the beat
And don't worry about me stepping all over your feet
[Hook]
[Outro - Ludacris]
Stand up! Stand up!
Stand up! Stand up!


[Intro: Kanye West] + (Ludacris) + (*Shawnna*)
Now, blaze that!
(Stand up!) (*uh*) (stand up!) (*yeah*)
(Stand up!) (*uh*) (stand up!) (*uh*)
[Hook: Ludacris & Shawnna]
When I move you move (just like that?)
When I move you move (just like that?)
When I move you move (just like that?)
Hell yeah!, hey DJ bring that back!
(When I move you move) just like that?
(When I move you move) just like that?
(When I move you move) just like that?
(Hell yeah!, hey DJ bring that back!)
[Verse 1: Ludacris]
How you ain't gone fuck?, bitch I'm me
I'm the goddamn reason you in V.I.P
CEO, you don't have to see ID
I'm young, wild, and strapped like Chi-Ali
BLAOW, we ain't got nothing to worry about
Whoop ass, let security carry them out
Watch out for the medallion, my diamonds are reckless
It feels like a midget is hanging from my necklace
I pulled up with a million trucks
Looking, smelling, feeling like a million bucks, ahh
Pass the bottles, the heat is on
We in the huddle all smoking that Cheech & Chong
What's wrong? The club and the moon is full
And I'm looking for a thick, young lady to pull
One sure shot way to get them out of them pants
Take note to the brand new dance
Like this
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Ludacris]
Go on with your big ass, let me see something
Tell your little friend he can quit mean mugging
I'm lit and I don't care what no one thinks
But where the fuck is the waitress at with my drinks?
My people outside and they can't get in
We gon' rush the back door & break them in
The owner already pissed cause we sort of late
But our time and our clothes, got to coordinate
Most girls looking right, some looking a mess
That's why they spilling drinks all over your dress
But Louis Vuitton bras all over your breasts
Got me wanting to put hickeys all over your chest
Ahh, come on we gon' party tonight
Y'all use mouth to mouth bring the party to life
Don't be scared, show another part of your life
The more drinks in your system, the harder the fight
[Hook]
[Bridge: Ludacris]
Stand up! stand up!
Stand up! stand up!
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Now, uh, me and Luda wasn't good at computers
So we dropped out of school cause we tried to fuck the tutor
Her ex man drove a 
Mercury Cougar
I hit him with this maneuver he just couldn't recooper
We got vouchers to stand on these couches
James Brown couldn't tell me, "get down!"
We got foreign cars and houses
We got porno stars and spouses
You trying to stab one like Jack The Ripper
Trying to get two like Jack "The Tripper"
My nigga Tone been locked for a minute
He come home from the street he gone want those strippers
And I'm a big tipper I don't even be tripping
This my first real Rolex, it don't even be ticking
This my first pair of earrings I can wear in the shower
Without'em clouding up in a half an hour
So that basically mean my paper getting mean
Four G's in a paper denim jeans
The pink rocks red hot like Anthony Kiedis
You see these, these is the sweetest Adidas
We FIRE, y'all RETIRE
All ugly people please!, be quiet!
Hov ain't get a beat from me in a minute
He heard "Just to Get By" and I was rehired
I got a track right now that could save my ass
It ain't a song it's a video, call Dave Meyers
Y'all drop 20 G's on the Sprewell rims
I give that money to another to get some real spins
[Hook: Ludacris] + (Shawnna)
[Outro: Ludacris] + (Shawnna)
Stand up! (uh) stand up! (yeah)
Stand up! (uh) stand up! (uh)
Stand up! (just like that?)
Stand up! (just like that?)
Stand up! stand up!


This was founded years ago
By broke slaves, years ago
Who did not have, years ago
By broke brothas in the 20s, years ago
Who did not have when we could not eat
Hmm, remember that?
Eating all of our cereal with forks because we wanted to save the milk, do you remember that? Hmm?
Do you remember all those Christmases when your Mama walked in the room and pretended she was the tree, huh?
Remember that?


[Young Jeezy]
Yeah
So what you gon' do? (TNG ain't nothin')
When they see TNG doin' it (Gettin' low) (Strapped up in this ma-fucka!)
You understand me?
Ha (You know what it is)
Better get low, nigga!
[Verse 1: Young Jeezy]
I'm just chillin' in that Phantom bumpin' that Yo Gotti
He's the boss of the town, call him young John Gotti
Sittin' down with the plug, 'bout to order up some tacos
Talkin' velveeta hella chips, nachos
And you really gettin' money, say cheese in this ma-fucka
Bitches on your dog like fleas in this ma-fucka
So many chains might freeze in this ma-fucka
Walked past a bitch like breeze in this ma-fucka
Black and gold stones, Drew Brees in this ma-fucka
Don't make me start talking quarter keys in this ma-fucka
Shell cases, night vision, ain't nothing stupider
Clips filled up, outta space (space), Jupiter
Don't make me start it up like a new Kawasaki
Drop me, hit ya in ya face, you'll be chicken teriyaki
While I'm on that new thug passion, that Belvedere and Saki
Chopping bricks with some chop sticks (chop sticks), I told you I got this
[Hook: Swizz Beatz]
You know they mad cause cause cause I’m hood rich
You never ever ever seen a nigga good trick
You want a problem?
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Start it up (vroom vroom)
You know they mad cause cause cause I’m hood rich
You never ever ever seen a nigga good trick
You want a problem?
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Wait a minute
[Lloyd Banks]
I'm who they be, Chronic by the P, living comfortably
Come with me, round and some would see why they fuck with me
Bentley's pulling up in three, multi-colored fleet
Y'all sour me, my summer's sweet, kiss my mother feet
Hate just makes chop 'em as they creek, life forever sweet
Life's a gamble and I play for keeps in these streets, uh
Magnificant flow or magnifique, Rookie have a seat
Them lil nigga just my parakeets, smacking masterpiece
My life is good, my bitches bad
I'm switching pads, changing watches in my christmas bag
I got the gift of gab, talked my way in and took some ass
Whips and cash, come through half stepping and then get whipped in half
Southside's my heart, too hard to forget the past
Lost too many niggas to the dirt, keep the liquor stashed
My flows off the ropes, uppercuts, stick to jabs
Shorty wanna grab, catch a couple nuts, hit the cab
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
We keep these G’s in an alloy safe
And stash the weed in an altoid case
They say good things come to those who wait
So I’ma be at least about a hour late
I’m so fresh, bitch, I should be arrested
New Cody Chesnutt with my nuts on your chest, bitch
She said “Hey ‘Ye”
I said “Yes, biiiiitch”
"Damn, I’m only asking you a question"
I met this milf at the allstar getting action
A cougar with more rings than Phil Jackson
Told her beauty is why God invented eyeballs
And her booty is why God invented my balls
I’m a rockstar, huh, start it up
Start it up, huh, start it up
So popular, you should get a shot of us
Niggas don’t take shots at us, that is only obvious
The first album I vomited, the second I colonic’d it
Ain't nobody fucking with me, I platonic’d it
Bet I got some slippers on, bet niggas gon' honor it
These ain't even real clothes, homie I’m pyjama rich
Banks told me homie go switch the style up
These bitches on me homie only to arouse us
Told her I ain't paying tonight I’m only browsing
She pulled her blouse up, said “It’s free”, I said "WOWZERS!"
[Hook]
[Bridge: Swizz Beatz]
Ninja (ninja), Kawasaki (Kawasaki), Ducati (Ducati), my old Harley (my old Harley)
Rock the party, (rock the party)
Move your body, (move your body)
Wassup, (wassup)
Everybody, (everybody)
Start it up (vroom, vroom) (uh-huh)
Start it up (vroom, vroom) (uh-huh)
Start it up (vroom, vroom) (uh-huh)
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
[Ryan Leslie]
Lets get it started, get it started, get it started yeah yeah
[Swizz Beatz]
Ladies and gentlemen!
[Verse 3: Fabolous]
Plenty hate, they be taking shots, never penetrate
Money generated, if we ain't in the house, renovate
Tryna eat, we ain't finna wait
Where’s the dinner plates?
BMW, ten to 8, Interstate 95, passenger
Baddest bitch in the state, half Spanish half Trinidad
Complexion Henny straight
Y’all ain't got your business straight, track star, finna state
Time is money and I can’t afford to be a minute late
It’s time to make a movie let the haters watch
Diamonds spinning 'round the bezel that's tornado watch
My independent chick, I like my ladies Koch
She got an appetite for dick, I guess her plate's my crotch
Y'all soft as tater tot, little niggas try me not
Under the wings, fried rice at the Chinese spot
I hear ‘em talking it but ain't really living it
Opinions are like assholes, so who gives a shit
[Hook]
[Swizz Beatz]
Wait a minute... (echos)


[Verse 1]
Uhh, uhh
Ladies and gentlemen the C-O-double M-O-N
Synonym for fresh, truth is the emblem
Hardcore since I was 
next
 door to Clem and them
Cold as the winter when fake niggas was shiverin'
Shakin' in they Timberlands, 
you as played as Bennigans
Hot for a minute, now you just a "remember him"
I been a master since P was No Limitin
Stick to sayin'
No gimmickin' and no mimickin'
Q infinitin' down old blocks are bendin in
Yellin' "Fuck tha police" like Ren and them
Pelican brief these niggas on who I be
Before the paper and the fame niggas knew Rashid
Noble like Drew Ali
Many have come
But few have been chose to be a true MC
You sing along with it, inside you knowin' it's wack
Young who? Oh, he the openin' act
[Verse 2]
Let, let, le-le-le-le-le-let's go
It's a festival in hip-hop, we do it non-stop
Pop your bottles
Chicago niggas do it in staccato
Choppin' notes for my homies,
 fuck a motto
And Ferragamo shoes givin' dudes the model
Think fast, drive slow, survival is the throttle
Your live show is hollow, should've kept it local
Rappin' over vocals
Soundin' soft as JoJo
With twelve monkeys on stage it's hard to see who's the gorilla
You was better as a drug dealer
Feel the passion of this B-boy rationale
Half of it is what you say and half is style
I guess it's time for you to start cashin' out
It's over folks, tell your guys to put the glasses down
Masters now, verses touch the youth like a Catholic priest
Performances keep me stackin' the sheets
[Verse 3]
The name is Com I’m like a rebel in rap
Struggle music mixed with weed to make the ghetto react
I know they wanna Resurrect but I ain’t pedalin' back
They gangster stories just as real as Kevin Federline rap
I guess it’s Kramer and Bush that don’t care about blacks
Kinda wish it was some real niggas there that just snapped
Meanwhile in the mean world, hoes cry freedom and fiends url
I’m standing supreme like the Dreamgirls
And I’m tellin you like Jennifer Hudson
The law get outta pocket then I’ma be buckin’
Goin’ against me joe is self-destruction
I’m tired of y'all like my man is of hustlin’
Shuckin’ and jivin', gon’ do that dance nigga
30 with kids pull up ya pants nigga
I ran with 
the brothers
 from around the 7
I can tell who’s live by soundcheckin'


[Verse 1]
You're kissing me and saying I'm the one you need
To keep you warm and lay with you tonight
Baby I feel the same way, I don't want to leave
Want to hold you close and feel your love inside
But I don't want to play myself
Because I know you're with someone else
And I don't need complications in my life
And I don't want to fall back in
And get caught up in you again
Boy I'm so conflicted in my mind
[Refrain]
You keep saying stay the night
Just let me rock you till the morning light
It's cold outside and much too late to drive
You know I need you baby, I'm so lost without your love
[Verse 2]
Obviously, procrastinating just to be
Close to you a little longer now
It's hard for me to break away from you baby
Never could resist you and I still haven't learned how
And I don't want to be a fool
But it's hard when it comes to you
And I'm feeling vulnerable tonight
Because I don't want to miss the chance
Of reliving our sweet romance
Boy I'm so confused down deep inside
[Refrain]


[Hook] (
)
(Stay Up)
Stay-
(VIAGRA!!)
Stay up
Stay up (Yeah)
Stay up (Kinda crazy, right?)
Stay up
[Kanye West]
What she got is so Niagara
Make a young nigga straight need Viagra
Make a old nigga give keys to Jaguar
Just to keep from all the tease and laughter
Her telling her homegirls that he couldn't stay up
In the restaurant with her voice way up
Please keep it discreet
Keep the business 
out of the street
She said "I would if he'll handle biz up in the sheets!"
Pop off like a thang thang
He keep keep
And every time that she bang bang
He skeet skeet
And he so bullheaded tried to three peat
Try imagining something passionate
Between you Cassie and Kim Kardashian
Maybe that'll work when you get to hit that ass again
Or you can grab a Red Bull and sip that twice
Now y'all can have sexy time, it's nice!!
[Hook]
[Kanye West]
Man this is classic
Call her 
Her ass is African, but her eyes so Asian
Plus the waist and, time's a-wastin'
This some good pussy, dog please don't waste it
You said "Fuck that, man I'm gon' tape it!"
And came before you barely even got the tape in
She had the maid outfit, it's all on her apron
I know a friend who got drunk and claim a fat bitch raped him
[88 Keys]
I heard that bitch 
 and she covers up her crotch
But she love to show her girls like Sanaa Lathan
And she throwing passes like Troy Aikman
And she really into twisting facts like false statements
He's into twisting backs by throwing his weight in
But she ain't waiting for him to rise to the occasion
He's like "Be patient, this a contact sport
So you can save your pep talk, give me that oral support"
And stay up
[Hook] (Kanye West & 88 Keys)
Stay up ([K]: She said you couldn't)
Stay up
Stay up ([K]: Way up)
Stay up ([K]: But why you don't)
Stay up
Stay up
Stay up
Stay up ([88]: I know you gotta)
Stay up ([K]: You know you gotta)
Stay- ([88]: I need that)
(VIAGRA!!)
Stay up
Stay up ([88]: She told me "Bitch" stay up)
Stay up
Stay up


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Sampled hook and Kanye intro]
Some people really
Some people really
Some people really are still dreaming
As the sun sets
And the night falls
And them hoes call
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
He pulled up at 6:30 in a 745
As he wavin' "shorty, hi", you know he showin' his bling out
She got in the car, he drove, he pulled his thing out
His girl caught feelings, she mad, she threw the ring out
How she found out she dreamt the whole thing out
Y'all be goin' through problems you gotta work the kinks out
When you go to sleep what do you think 'bout
If y'all get a divorce she gon' take everything except the kitchen sink out
Make it so cold that you gotta pull ya mink out
Or grab ya roller skates and turn a roller rink out
You now back up in the club, in the club, tryna min-gle
Meanwhile, she out doing the same thing now
Nightmares from your dream gal make you scream out
[Adlibs over sampled hook]
One two, one two
Some dreams stay dreams some dreams come true
One two one two
Some dreams stay dreams some dreams come true
Some people really
Some people really
Some people really are still dreaming
[Verse 2: Nas]
How you a man waitin' for the next man to get rich
Yo' plan is to stick out yo' hand real quick
So if he feed ya family and he serve you shit
Then he need that head you get and he deserve your bitch
Since you wishin' cash fall from the sky all ya life
Dwellin' on the past when you was alright
When you was gettin' cash but wasn't too bright
Now ya luck down you feel like bustin' them shells
Nobody owe you, can't do nothin' for self
Want niggas to show you, how to come up wit' green
I schemed since I'm 14s, what the fuck was your dream?
Rental cars, little broads, sayin' you was seen
With little niggas, little chain, you was doin' ya thing
How high was I?
 
You the thousandth guy
That came around thinkin' we can see, eye to eye
We on a different echelon
, 
coulda got bread together
Now you gets deaded on
[Refrain: Sample of Kanye West and Nas]
[Verse 3: Nas]
She had several cars, she had credit cards, a castle
Large master bathroom, gettin' a pedicure
Bellinis by the glassful
, said she been meaning to ask who
Who in need of cash who, who could blast tools
And I'm eatin' cashews
, knew she was bad news
But we mad cool, nothin' sexual cause I knew her since high school
Grew up with my dudes, like one of my crew
She worked for Fox News
One of her mans that she lent her drop to
Won't come back wit' it so she want him clapped in it
Says it's important that it looks like an accident
She was snortin' and her eyes had bags in it
She was recordin', had a wire, askin' shit
Four days before I came by she got bagged wit' bricks
Crossed the line from her world of news castin'
To a world of entrapment, a good girl gone backwards
Still dreamin'
[Refrain: sample + Kanye and Nas]
[Sample of "They are still dreaming" to end]


[Intro: Ken Kaniff]
Uhh, hell yea man, hm, oh fuck yeah
When I'm not at home beating my shit to death
I'm listening to The Madd Rapper's album
This is Ken Kaniff and I'm still mad as hell, fuck you
[Verse 1: Eminem]
I'm crazy with this razor, with this razor I'm crazy
With this crazor I'm razy, razor crazed, I'm crazy
(Okay, I'm re-loaded)
 
Go bring Jay-Z
(Tell them him I'ma ghostwrite for him) On Dre's beats
Ran in the ladies' room naked in a blanket
At the banquet and started to spank it (ahh)
Came in the bank with a tank fired a blank at the clerk and handcuffed her ankles
To the safe and thanked her but I didn't take nothing (thanks)
Every bullet came from the same gun, just from different angles
Cause I was picking strange places to aim from
(Man, I bet you fifty bucks you won't jump out the window Shady)
*Crash* (Ahhhh!!)
 
PAY ME
[Verse 2: The Madd Rapper]
Psyche, no 
bread
Fucked up in the head
Shot my girl and my sister cause I caught them in bed
(Wait, wait, wait)
I'm a crazy motherfucker might shoot me a Fed
Or I just might start a fist fight instead
See as far as the dough go, I go loco
See me pumpin' gas at your local Sunoco
Stuck off the hydro, mixed with cocoa
Jump turn styles, then run from po-po
[Hook: The Madd Rapper & Eminem]
Life stinks, we don't give a fuck son, we crazy
Tear up the clubs and do drugs, we crazy
Fuck wild hoes and bust slugs, we crazy
Madd rapper is crazy
Slim Shady is crazy
[Verse 3: The Madd Rapper]
I wish I'd been aborted, 
my pockets got a shortage
Everything I wanna floss I can't afford it
I'm trying to sell an o,
 my pops trying to snort it
My daughter's babysitter is about to be deported
I'm mad cause I still stand in line for clubs
Mad cause my rottweiler still shits on the rugs
(God Dammit Spike)
Feeling kinda crazy now, I just might flip out
Slim Shady gave me shrooms and I might trip out, like
(Eh.... Oh... Dude
Yo, this shit is crazy... oohhhh..... This is
Incredible... ohhh....)
Fuck that Slim keep that for yourself
You a crazy white dude and you need some help
Word
[Verse 4: Eminem]
I got a beautiful wife, kids, and a gorgeous home
What would make me jump in the tub with a cordless phone?
I'm straight vicious, I hit you with plates and dishes
Leave you with eight stitches
What I'm gay cause I hate bitches
Slut, don't be nice to me, I've had it with girls
And I'll still be mad at the world
Even if it apologized to me
 
(sorry)
You're hearing the last thoughts of a man about to blow his fucking brains out
Fall back with a blood stained blouse on top of his spouse
Spread out on a blood stained couch
In front of his kids that he just killed in the same house
I'm sicker than Boy George
 
picturing Michael Jackson
In little boys' drawers shopping at toy stores
Shady said it, Shady meant it
I stay demented
I'll throw a stroller at you, with a baby in it
Go ahead pull the plug, think I won't smack you
I just dropped a fucking pill mom, don't vacuum
[Hook]


[Verse 1]
Let me know
Do I still got time to grow?
Things ain't always set in stone
That be known let me know
Let me...
[Hook]
Seems like street lights glowing
Happen to be just like moments passing
In front of me
So I hopped in the cab and
I paid my fare
See I know my destination, but I'm just not there
All the street lights, glowing
Happen to be just like moments, passing
In front of me
So I hopped in the cab and
I paid my fare
See I know my destination, but I'm just not there
[Bridge]
In the streets
In the streets
I'm just not there in the streets
I'm just not there
Life's just not fair
[Hook + Bridge]


[Produced by Kanye West, Mike Dean, and Timbaland]
[Hook]
N-now th-that that don't kill me
Can only make me stronger
I need you to hurry up now
Cause I can't wait much longer
I know I got to be right now
Cause I can't get much wronger
Man I've been waiting all night now
That's how long I been on ya
(I need you right now!)
[Verse 1]
Let's get lost tonight
You could be my black Kate Moss tonight
Play secretary, I'm the boss tonight
And you don't give a fuck what they all say, right?
Awesome, the Christian in Christian Dior
Damn, they don't make 'em like this anymore
I ask, cause I'm not sure
Do anybody make real shit anymore?
Bow in the presence of greatness
Cause right now thou hast forsaken us
You should be honored by my lateness
That I would even show up to this fake shit
So go ahead, go nuts, go apeshit
'Specially in my Pastel, on my Bape shit
Act like you can't tell who made this
New Gospel homie, take 6,
 
and take this, haters
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I don't know if you got a man or not
If you made plans or not
If God put me in ya plans or not
I'm tripping, this drink got me saying a lot
But I know that God put you in front of me
So how the hell could you front on me?
There's a thousand yous, there's only one of me
I'm tripping, I'm caught up in the moment, right?
Cause it's Louis Vuitton Don night
So we gon' do everything that Kan like
Heard they'd do anything for a Klondike
Well, I'd do anything for a blonde dyke
And she'll do anything for the limelight
And we'll do anything when the time's right
Uh, baby you're makin' it
(Harder, better, faster, stronger)
[Hook]
[Outro]
You know how long I've been on ya
Since Prince was on Apollonia
Since O.J. had Isotoners
Don't act like I never told ya


[Hook]
N-now th-that that don't kill me
Can only make me stronger
I need you to hurry up now
Cause I can't wait much longer
I know I got to be right now
Cause I can't get much wronger
Man I've been waiting all night now
That's how long I been on ya
(I need you right now!)
[Verse 1]
When the fast life takes its tole
That act right makes everything slow
Them black lights make everything glow
One of those nights where everything goes
Everybody goes through something
People be talking to you like you nothing
Then you be like bitch I'm me
Then your boss be like bitch then leave
You covered up your tats too long with them sleeves
You've gotta hit the club let the real you breathe
Would you believe, you'll never shine if you're not seen
So get all in they face like Noxzema
I know you mesmerized about that ass in them jeans
Please don't hit that raw, it's not clean
Please don't forget that all when it seems
[Hook]
N-now th-that that don't kill me
Can only make me stronger
I need you to hurry up now
Cause I can't wait much longer
I know I got to be right now
Cause I can't get much wronger
Man I've been waiting all night now
That's how long I been on ya
(I need you right now!)
[Verse 2]
Let's get lost tonight
You could be my black Kate Moss tonight
Play secretary, I'm the boss tonight
And you don't give a fuck what they all say, right?
Awesome, the Christian in Christian Dior
Damn, they don't make 'em like this anymore
I ask, cause I'm not sure
Do anybody make real shit anymore?
Bow in the presence of greatness
Cause right now thou hast forsaken us
You should be honored by my lateness
That I would even show up to this fake shit
So go ahead, go nuts, go apeshit
'Specially in my Pastel, on my Bape shit
Act like you can't tell who made this
New Gospel homie, take 6, and take this, haters
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I don't know if you got a man or not
If you made plans or not
If God put me in ya plans or not
I'm tripping, this drink got me saying a lot
But I know that God put you in front of me
So how the hell could you front on me?
There's a thousand yous, there's only one of me
I'm tripping, I'm caught up in the moment, right?
Cause it's Louis Vuitton Don night
So we gon' do everything that Kan like
Heard they'd do anything for a Klondike
Well, I'd do anything for a blonde dyke
And she'll do anything for the limelight
And we'll do anything when the time's right
Uh, baby you're makin' it
(Harder, better, faster, stronger)
[Hook]
[Outro]
You know how long I've been on ya
Since Prince was on Apollonia
Since O.J. had Isotoners
Don't act like I never told ya


[Intro: Kanye West]
What you gon do? 
It’s G.O.O.D. Music
 and 
G-Unit
Ugh, Banks, Loso
[Hook: Swizz Beatz]
Ladies and gentlemen
You know they mad cause cause cause I’m hood rich
You never ever ever seen a nigga good trick
You want a problem
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Start it up (vroom vroom)
Wait a minute
[Verse 1: Lloyd Banks]
Big blue
, 
hot and sandy shoe
Cotton candy coupe
Hard knock, orphan Annie loop
Off the stoop
Play with me, see what the swammy do
My canary shoe
High beams pointed right at you, peek-a-boo
Benji paper made me hater-proof
All your thing reduce
Menage a trois, purple haze and goose, got me loose
Kick my way in and now I got the juice, 
Gucci bubble goose
Thousand kicks couple hundred boots getting fucking loot
My top down, I’m flashing on em
I’m passing all them, pullover and hit the hazards on em
The ratchets on ‘em, pay my dues, now it’s back to ballin'
Your 
raps are boring dead men, I dip the casket for em
I’m back performing, I bag em
Break their back, 
don’t call em
Look down on em like Dikembe, Patrick, Mourning
Cash is pourin’
Stunt stormin
, 
got these bitches soaked
Camera phones capture everything that pictures don't
[Hook: Swizz Beatz] x2
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
We keep these G’s in an alloy safe
And stash the weed in an Altoids case
They say good things come to those who wait
So I’mma be at least about a hour late
I’m so fresh bitch I should be arrested
New Cody Chesnutt with my nuts on your chest bitch
She said “hey ‘Ye”
I said “Yes, bitch”
"Damn I’m only asking you a question"
I met this milf at the allstar
 getting action
A cougar with more rings than Phil Jackson
Told her beauty is why God invented eyeballs
And her booty is why God invented my balls
I’m a rockstar, huh,
 start it up
Start it up, huh, start it up
So popular you should get a shot of us
Niggas don’t take shots at us that is only obvious
The first album I vomited, the second I colonic’d it
Ain't nobody fucking with me, I Platonic’d it
Bet I got some slippers on, bet niggas gon' honor it
These ain't even real clothes homie I’m pajama rich
Banks told me homie go switch the style up
These bitches on me homie only to arouse us
Told her I ain't paying tonight I’m only browsing
She pulled her blouse up, said “It’s free”, I said WOWZERS!
[Hook: Swizz Beatz] x2
[Bridge: Swizz Beatz]
Ninja Kawasaki,
 
Ducati,
 
my old Harley
Rock the party
Move your body
Wassup, wassup
Everybody
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
Start it up (vroom, vroom)
Wait a minute
[Ryan Leslie]
Lets get it started, get it started, get it started yeah yeah
[Verse 3: Fabolous]
Plenty hate, they be taking shots, never penetrate
Money generated, 
if we ain't in the house, renovate!
Tryna eat, we ain't finna wait
Where’s the dinner plates?
BMW, 10 to 8, Interstate 95
, passenger
Baddest bitch in the states, half Spanish half Trinidad
Complexion Henny straight
Y’all ain't got your business straight, track star, finna state
Time is money and I 
can’t afford to be a minute late
It’s time to make a movie let the haters watch
Diamonds spinning round the bezel that's tornado watch
My independent chick, I like my ladies Koch
She got an appetite for dick, I guess her plate's my crotch
Y'all soft as tater tot, little niggas try me not
Under the wings, fried rice at the Chinese spot
I hear ‘em talking it but ain't really living it
Opinions are like assholes so who gives a shit
[Hook] x2


[Intro: Mos Def + (Sample)]
(Let the sun shine)
Yeah yeah its a brand new day y'all (Let the sunshine in)
Turn me up in the top a little bit dog
Little do you know, y'all gonna hear this one (The suns shinin')
Loud and clear, bright and early
Listen..
[Verse 1: Mos Def]
I don't hate players, I don't love the game
I'm the shot clock, way above the game
To be point blank with you motherfuck the game
I got all this work on me, I ain't come for play
You can show the little shorties how you pump and fake
But dog, Not to def, I'm not impressed
I'm not amused, I'm not confused, I'm not the dude
I'm grown man business
, and I am not in school
Put your hand down youngin' this is not for you
On my J.O. with beats by Kan-ye yo
My name on the marquee, your name off the payroll
Style fresh, like I'm still a day old
And it's been like that since the day yo
On more time than a Roley, or Seiko
Step on deck, your neck do what I say so
Get up or get out, get down or lay low
[Hook 1: Mos Def + (Sample)]
(Let the sun shine)
Standing in the shadow of a fabulous man
Brooklyn nigga I am, Black Dante
 (Let the sunshine in)
That nigga, that dude
Black People, Lets Move (The suns shinin')
Shout out to my man Talib Kweli, yes
We on top-a top-a, shout-a shout-a
Check it out..
[Verse 2: Mos Def + (Sample)]
Slim nigga that casts a big shadow
Cherokee red to shoot the long arrow
Got more skill, more aim, and more ammo
You can get it all from a big or small barrel
Like, 
hail Mary, full of grace
Niggas come in and shoot up the place
And make you pull up your face
The deck, I'm a pull out the ace
From the jungles of the empire state
Where it ain't no escape,
 
247
, 
718
And thats like every night, every day
From the place that I settle and stay
To the states, I'm collecting my pay
Blast off then I'm back to the K
Hold it down so my family straight
Represent in a family way
Pro ball not for amateur play
Been raw since the amateur stage
Before the press had the cameras raised
[Hook 2: Mos Def + (Sample)]
(Let the sun shine)
Like a long time man of the way
You understanding me straight (Let the sunshine in)
Yes, yes, no doubt, excellence
Its what it is, what it is
And thats what it is, you see? (The suns shinin')
Ha, Fire..
[Verse 3: Mos Def]
Cause it is deeper, sweeter, richer, crisper
Stronger reception and sharper picture
Revolve around God, and involve with niggas
These elements help evolve my scripture
And make Mos Def a classic modern figure
Brooklyn it don't matter if you holler or whisper
Your coming through clear, cause I'm right here wit'cha
Ain't gotta edit your slang, I got it, I get ya
Yo, brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers
The lovers, the leavers, the doubters, believers
The stayers, the quitters, the bitches, the niggas
Rebel guerrillas to ghetto civilians
Y'all 'gon feel it from the first to the millionth
It's extra, ordinary and plain
I walk a thousand paces of light 
ahead
 of the game
By the time that you get where I'm standing, I'll be gone
Y'all make moves, but y'all just move wrong
[Outro: Mos Def + (Sample)]
(Let the sun shine)
I move in, and y'all must move on
Cause I'm oh too strong
And I know what my feet move for (Let the sunshine in)
Made it go without a brand new car
I was fresh without a brand new song
Don't give a fuck about what brand you are (The suns shining')
I'm concerned what type of man you are
What your principles and standards are
You understand me y'all
Be good to your family y'all
No matter where your families are
Cause everybody needs family y'all
Raise a hand, you understand me y'all
Everybody needs family y'all
Be good to your families dog
Understand, no matter where your families are
Everybody needs family dog
Raise a hand, you understand me pa
Thats what it is...thats my man
Family and my family Pencil Pete
My man too, all our loved ones behind the walls
All of those who still in the struggle
Assata, Mumia, Sundiata, my man Jamil
(Let the sun shine)
Life is real
To all the real soldiers, black people (Let the sunshine in)
We family y'all (The suns shining')
Let it be bright..


[Intro: Kanye West]
Yeah, G.O.O.D. Music
Starshell in the house
Let me see what the fuck you're about
Hey ladies!
Sup, I'm tryin' to take that down
Hey ladies!
Sup, I'm tryin' to take that down
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Want money like Jay, clothes like Ye
Chicks like Seal
, mass appeal
I'm just tryin' to feel if the ass is real
Man I should've known since she from Brazil
South side
, 
my nigga, give me room now
Money high, yeah my pockets on shrooms now
I had a lot of bullshit I had to tune out
It's me and dude now, what you gon' do now?
Cause if you mess with the spuds, then you gon' do the dishes
I ain't Flavor Flav, but you look delicious
And your heels vicious, killin' these bitches
I'm so sin-seriously pimpin!
[Verse 2: Starshell]
Highlights and designer blues
With my tattoos of, "I love you"
I just threw on these dancing shoes
To prove my love for you
I'm livin' it up
Secretly he notices how I'm playin' it up
For him, playin' it up
I'm livin' it up
Dancing on the tables as the DJ spinnin' it up
For me, spinnin' it up
For me, for me, for me, for me
[Verse 3: Big Sean]
I do it, do it
Do it, do it, boy, boy, boy
B-I-G
, 
okay show him you're a big girl
I'll show you why they call me big girl
I know you're tryin' to be my baby
But that mean I gotta lay you in the crib girl
Wobbledy-wobbledy wo-wobble wobble
I'm stack-stackin' my paper, my wallet look like a Bible
I got girlies half naked, that shit just look like the Grotto
How your waist anorexic and then your ass is colossal?
Like how you do that shit is not for real
Do it like you probably will
Okay, what you got is magic baby
So you gotta let me cop a feel, okay
Gon' touch your toesies, woahdie
Don't stop, keep going going going like my rollie
I might fuck around and put a tip on it
Fuck that, I'mma put my dick on it like woah
[Hook: Starshell]
Back to the beat, get up on your feet
Wanna be your superluva
Right back to the beat, get up on your feet
I'mma be your superluva
Wanna be your superluva
[Outro: Starshell]
Got 'em all sayin', "Hey hey hey"
Look at them, "Hey hey hey"
Look at them, "Hey hey hey"
Look at them, "Hey hey hey"
Got 'em all sayin'


[Hook: Mr. Hudson]
And I feel like taking off
Let me be your supernova
Before you make the biggest mistake of your life
Just give me the chance to get it right
[Verse 1: Mr. Hudson]
They got it all
They've got all the things I thought I wanted
But I can't afford
To fake anymore
To live this facade and smile as the warm champagne pours
Out on the lawn
We'll pretend we're having tonnes of fun in this world where we don't belong
Some bloke all alone
Is she thinking of me
Did she forget what we once had
[Hook: Mr. Hudson]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Oh they got it all you can see they got it all
They got the cars the boat and the beautiful house by the shore
And you know there's more
But I can't take another minute of y'all
He wants his kids and the dog
He wants his breakfast in bed
He's got his trust fund saved
Not a worry in his head
It's not you homie
I wanna break up the scene and see you running back to me
[Hook: Kanye West](2x)
[Mr. Hudson]
You've got it wrong if you say our love is gone
 [x5]
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Hook: Both]


[Intro/Hook x7: M.I.A.]
No one on the corner has swagger like us
Swagger like us, swagger-swagger like us
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Mr. West is in the buildin'
Swagger on a hundred thousand trillion
Aye yo, I know I got it first
I'm Christopher Columbus, y'all just the Pilgrims
Thanksgiving, do we even got a question
Hermes pastel, I pass the dressing
My attitude is tattooed
That mean it's permanent
So I guess we should address it, huh?
My swagger is Mick Jagger
Every time I breathe on a track, I asthma attack it
"Why you so mad for?
Why you gotta have it?"
Cause I slaved my whole life
Now I'm the master
Naaaaa-na-naaaaa
How it feel to wake up and be the shit and the urine
Naaaaa-na-naaaaa
Tryna get that Kobe number
One over Jordan
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Gotta bop like this
Can't wear skinny jeans cause my knots don't fit
No one on the corner got a pocket like this
So I rock Roc jeans
 
cause my knots so thick
You can learn how to dress just by checkin' my fresh
Checkin', checkin' my fresh; checkin', checkin' my fresh
Follow my steps is the road to success
Where the niggas know you're thorough when the girls say yes (yes)
But I can't teach you my swag
You can pay for school but you can't buy class
School of hard knocks: I'm a grad
And that all-blue Yankee is my graduation cap
It's hooooo-vahhhhh
Dipping different Rovers
Whipping with the soda
Hooooo-vahhhhh
Did you even have any doubt after 
 it was over
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Lil Wayne]
No one on the corner has swagger like moi
Church
But I'm too clean for the choir
I require, what I desire
I got stripes: A-di-das
s scream, "
"
Run up in your shit, just me no mas
Runnin' this shit like I got four thighs
No one has swagger like these four guys
Now when it comes to styles, I got several
Sharper than the swag or dagger all metal
And my jewels blue and yellow
The type of shit that make 'em call you Carmelo
Rules as follows stay true to the ghetto
Write your name on the bullet, make you feel special
Ha, what the fuck you boys talkin' about
I know it's us cause we the only thing to talk about
[Hook]
[Verse 4: T.I.]
Yeah hah, you think?
That's right; aye
You can go see Weezy for the wordplay
Jeezy for the bird play
Kanyeezy for diversity
And me for controversy
All my verses picture perfect
Only spit to serve a purpose
You ain't livin' what you kickin' then you worthless
Looking from the surface it may seem like I got reason to be nervous
Then observe my work to see that my adversity was worth it
Verses autobiographical
Absolutely classical
Last thing I'm worried about is what another rapper do
Ain't nobody hot as me
Even if they rap they ass off
Blast off and have outstanding quality
Sell a lotta records, I'll respect it and salute that
But spitting real life on hot beats I'm the truth at
You kick it like me, no exaggeration necessary
Livin' revolutionary, nuttin' less than legendary
Gangsta shit hereditary, got it from my dad
Flow colder than February with extraordinary swag


[Hook: Chris Brown]
Come on, let's toast the champagne, this one's for the life
Did everything you could to be here for the night
Man it feels good, everything is right
Energy is strong enough to brighten city lights
My whole team winning, no vision on quitting
I'd rather say I did than let them busters say I didn't
Let 'em talk about it mane, I'm already living
I risk my life to try everyday to go and get it, get it, get it
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
Came from the bottom, no one said it would be fair
Now I'm on this money, lounging like it's a beach chair
Poppa don't preach, all we do is just reach here
Raised round killers, we just happy to be here
Spot 'em, got 'em, let your soul pay your dues
While my hoes doing magic, voodoo moulin rouge
That's a tactic that they use, fuck 'em high then suck 'em dry
Before you know it her Q7 is buzzing by
The queen pin to the king pin redeems him
The boat comes, the dope drums, my team wins
Yuugh! This the life that we made
Gun shots in the dark like a sweet serenade
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Pusha T]
Supreme ballers, all my niggas got ESPY's
Triple doubles, both wrist and neck freeze
Triple doubles, two bricks and tech squeeze
Triple doubles, two hoes and check please (Wooo!)
They love me on my Ric Flair shit (Wooo!)
In that Phantom like I'm Blair Witch (Wooo!)
Who are you to be compared with? (Wooo!)
Ain't no niggas that you bled with
Court cases ran base and road aces
Lick shots or left bodies with no traces
Yuugh! This the life that we made
Gun shots in the dark like a sweet serenade
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Pusha T]
Look, my ouija board don't never lie to me
The best rapper living, I know who's alive to me
Yeah, the competition's all but died to me
Raah, I make these mothafuckas hide from me
The Sergio Tacchini life we uphold
You just posing for them pics so you can upload
Yuugh! This the life that we made
Gun shots in the dark like a sweet serenade, nigga
[Hook]


[Hook - Pusha T]
Doing my thing, pocket full of green
Hand on my dick in my thousand dollar jeans
Your girl a queen, my girl a thing
You know what though, I
'mma take this one for the team
[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
You know what? I figured out I'm not a nice guy
I shook hands, kissed babies, gave it a nice try
You know what? I hate pictures of other people's kids
I hate plastic couches in other people's cribs
I hate when other people's cribs smell like shit
I hate when I leave and smell like the crib
What's the cause of the poor smell?
She said "I just cleaned up"
Baby I can't tell
Why every ghetto bitch gotta smell like Love Spell?
Or that god damn cucumber Bath and Body Works
I can still smell the sweat the shit hardly works
What about Cool Water? That shit probably worse
This here a classic like the Lodi Dodi verse
And my man probably hollered at the hottie first
I score, he took the charge
Oooh, that shit gotta hurt
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Pusha T]
Never mind me, 'Ye have fun
If the cops ask, that's my gun
That's my weed, anything you need
I'm a take, I'm a take, I'm a take this one for the team
One fat ass, one flat ass
Nigga hit the switcheroo on my black ass
Ever seen Joe's Jeans on a jackass?
And my bitch got on tights with a tack ass
I'm a fly nigga, and I carry on
With them bottles of that rose Dom Perignon
Ever seen how a kingpin carries on?
Dookie rope link chain and a herringbone
The real shit, gotta feel this
First class flights baby that's a field trip
Double date, don't cooperate, kill switch
Fuck me and my man, you a real bitch
[Hook]
[Bridge - Keri Hilson]
Boy I know you the one that I heard about
I know you working with it through word of mouth
Looks like I'm a have to test you in and out
It's a dirty job but sometimes you gotta
Take it for the team
Take it for the team
Take it for the team
Take it for the team
[Verse 3 - Cyhi the Prynce]
I'm blowing on stinky that come in a jar
Playing with her kitty made her come in the car
She a redbone but her cousin is dark
A little out of shape but she'll fuck in the dark
Until she start complaining about her feet hurt
I'm trying to fuck she talking about she want to eat first
I'm like "why did this bitch have to bring her?"
Trying to get her back to the nest so I could sting her
So I hit Big Sean on the ringer
Said, "I got a chick for you that look like a singer"
On a scale of one to ten she's a fifteener
You should've seen a nigga's face when he seen her
He said the bitch wasn't pretty enough to finger
On my team she would be a fifth stringer
I said I got the fine one in the Beamer
I'm the point guard and I need a winger
Take one for the team
[Hook]
[Verse 4 - Kanye West]
It's the nigga they love to hate
But all the bad model bitches they love to date
You need to check my swag and get up to date
Check, check my swag and get up to date
We in the bathroom now, she get her back blew out
She can't clean but I bet she got a vacuum mouth
And I bet I'm going to sweat her Vidal Sassoon out
Her pen busted, goddamn, who brought the raccoon out?
For the team
[Outro - Kanye West]
Like we always do at this time
Like we always do at this time
I go for, I got to
Like we always do at this time
Like we always do at this time
Go for, I got to
Like we always do at this time
Like we always do at this time
South side, we gonna set this party off right
This time
This time


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook]
R.O.C., we running this rap shit
Memphis Bleek, we running this rap shit
B. Mac, we running this rap shit
Freeway, we run this rap shit
O & Sparks, we running this rap shit
Chris & Neef, we running this rap shit
("Watch out!! We run New York")
[Verse 1]
The takeover, the break's over, nigga
God MC - me - Jay-hova
Hey lil soldier, you ain't ready for war
R.O.C. too strong for y'all
It's like bringing a knife to a gunfight, pen to a test
Your chest in the line of fire with your thin-ass vest
You bringing them boys to men, how them boys gonna win?
This is grown man B.I., get you rolled into triage, bi-atch
Your reach ain't long enough, dunny
Your peeps ain't strong enough, fucker
Roc-A-Fella is the army - better yet - the navy!
Niggas'll kidnap your babies, spit at your lady
We bring knife to fistfight, kill your drama
We kill you motherfucking ants with a sledgehammer
Don't let me do it to you, dunny, cause I overdo it
So you won't confuse it with "just rap music"
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
I don't care if you Mobb Deep, I hold triggers to crews
You little fuck, I got money stacks bigger than you
When I was pushing weight, back in '88
You was a ballerina, I got the pictures, I seen ya
Then you dropped "Shook Ones," switched your demeanour
Well - we don't believe you, you need more people
Roc-A-Fella, students of the game, we passed the class cause
Nobody can read you dudes like we do
Don't let em gas you, like "Jigga is ass and won't clap you"
Trust me on this one, I'll detach you
Mind from spirit, body from soul
They'll have to hold a mass, put your body in a hole
No, you're not on my level get your brakes tweaked
I sold what your whole album sold in my first week
You guys don't want it with Hov
Ask Nas, he don't want it with Hov, no!
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
I know you missing Nas all the (fame)
But along with celebrity comes about 70 shots to your frame, nigga
You a (lame)
You's the fag model for Karl Kani, Esco ads
Went from Nasty Nas to Esco's trash
Had a spark when you started but now you're just garbage
Fell from "top 10" to "not mentioned at all"
To your bodyguard's "Oochie Wally"'s verse better than yours
Matter of fact you had the worst flow on the whole fucking song
But I know: the sun don't shine, then son don't shine
That's why your (lame) career's come to an end
It's only so long fake thugs can pretend
Nigga, you ain't live it
You witnessed it from your folks' pad
You scribbled it in your notepad and created your life
I showed you your first TEC, on tour with Large Professor
Then I heard your album about your TEC on the dresser
So yeah, I sampled your voice, you was using it wrong
You made it a hot line, I made it a hot song
And you ain't get a coin, nigga, you was getting fucked then
I know who I paid, God - Serchlite publishing
Use your (brain)
You said you've been in this 10, I've been in it 5
 - 
smarten up, Nas
4 albums in 10 years, nigga?
 
I could divide
That's one every...let's say 2
2 of them shits was due
1 was "nah," the other was 
That's a one-hot-album-every-10-year average
And that's so (lame)
Nigga, switch up your flow
Your shit is garbage
What you trying to kick, knowledge?
You niggas gonna learn to respect the king
Don't be the next contestant on that Summer Jam screen
Because you-know-who did you-know-what with you-know-who
But let's keep that between me and you (for now)
[Hook]
[Verse 4]
A wise man told me don't argue with fools
Cause people from a distance can't tell who is who
So stop with that childish shit, nigga I'm grown
Please leave it alone - don't throw rocks at the throne
Do not bark up that tree, that tree will fall on you
I don't know why your advisers ain't forewarn you
Please, not Jay, he's not for play
I don't slack a minute, all that thug rapping and gimmicks
I will end it, all that yapping be finished
You are not deep, you made your bed now sleep
Don't make me expose you to them folks that don't know you
Nigga I know you well, all the stolen jew-els
Twinkletoes, you're breaking my heart
You can't fuck with me - go play somewhere, I'm busy
And all you other cats throwing shots at Jigga
You only get half a bar - fuck y'all niggas


[Cam'ron]
When it comes to these guns my men'll clap this
Bullets I will send you access
I'm about to Reynolds Wrap this
School all the haters, blue is the gators
Do me a favor dawg don't do me no favors
I've put undercovers, under covers
Not only that I put guns to mothers
Sons and brothers, aunts, nieces, nephews
Cousins to in-laws, no one's above us
Guns in Ruckers (Ruckers) now no one can duck us
Your parents ain't shit, y'all the sons of suckers
Son of a bitch, I sell the slugs
Keep a shotgun like Elmer Fudd
You could tell the judge dawg
I sat in the cell with thugs
One year and eight months still felt the love (no homo, all good)
Act drastic killa, pack plastic
You rap black bastard get your cap clapped backwards
Round ice, I'm as nice as Gretzky
??? Lewinsky 
NC like Mike Krzyzewski
Far missions you Saddam vision
But I send you a tape of your sister and your mom kissin'
My dick that is, see how I foul them bitches is
Four minutes they gon' lick my kids
But no presents, keep your Rolies
I don't want you to teach me a moment
I don’t need you to hold me, lease me or loan me
Ma I ain’t gonna feed you a phony
Keep it as homies or leave me alone B
Apologize?, I’m not sorry
I done came through got my undercovers say not the Ferrari
Yes he did do a part in dolly
What color he get? hot tamale
Who in the car with him, Oh my god its Hollys
Robinson and Berry, Fuck Eric Benet
Send slugs wherever you stay
Matter fact have her back, she was just used
She get married every two years the bitch is confused
Come to ice, I get it in cubes
Tried to get another bracelet, my wrist just refused
Bout time that I get at you dudes
If you wore size 30 couldn’t fit in these shoes
That coke ?? doe, it fit in these shoes
Fuck the okie doke, opinion and views
Why you runnin, I’m gunnin, your linen is through
Bust you onion, a bunyon, any limb you can lose
I spit rounds, to cut kids down
And I sign to the Roc man don’t suck dick now
Dame looked out signed a gem
It’s all creme de la creme, now run tell a friend
Cats say how I get out my deal?
Dawg I pulled out my steal, I’m bout it for real
I ran in the Sony buildings
Smack grown folks around like they were only children
No one outta line, cause they spotted nines
I want out an y'all sign on the dotted line
Word homie I ain't kidding you hops
Only one to leave Sony without getting dropped
I’m about getting Glocks, I’m about hittin blocks
I’m about findin bitches that’s about lickin cock
Niggas ballin but they hoop game is sloppy
Dudes ill knock me, coupes ill drop me
Ask Luca Brasi
Before I come the mood be groggy
I hit four five, Hallelujah Papi
Yo I’m tryin to get through to Papi
I’m paying thirty-four and I want two from Papi
So you think you loc, we locer
You got that diplomat tattoo
We like coastra nostra
It’s perpetual, sit up in correctional
Come through shoot up a precinct like the professional
Jim Jones get indicted just let me know
Put up the house buy the petty coat
We movin down to Mexico
Yeah there they won’t mention me
Call Tavisia we need new identities
You want Santiago
I’m Jose Perez, down there they don’t know them heads, shit
Who don’t think I’m the Don of Dons then bet me
Shit the way I bomb Saddam respects me
R-O-C, runnin that rap shit
Cam’ron, runnin that crack shit
Santana, runnin that gat shit
Beef nigga? that’s it, we come through and clap quick
Jimmy Jones, believe me that’s it
Fuck with Zeke you know you get slapped, bitch
I’m downtown, Gucci or Sack Fifth
Tripped on and licked on and yes by a bad bitch


[Verse 1: Brandy]
What ya hear this time
Go on and speak ya mind
I know somebody's lying
It's always somethin
Her auntie told your cousin
Then all your homies jumped in
And now the whole hoods buzzin
He said, she said
Don't let it get in ya head
Baby don't say
Something that you will regret
I'm on your team
It's us against them you'll see
Hey, we ain't gon stop
They just want what we got
[Hook: Brandy]
The more they talk about our love
The more they make it obvious
The more they seem so envious
How can they talk about our love
When they don't know one thing about
Instead they just runnin they mouths
So all we do is tune them out
[Verse 2: Brandy]
I swear they got some nerve
Spreadin what they heard
I can't give them no burn
I can't be concerned with all that talk
I won't be involved
That's my word
See I'm not the one
They got me confused
They got me messed up
Don't you think I've had enough
When it comes to what we do
All that matters is us two
Don't pay them no mind
We just gon show and prove
[Hook: Brandy]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Heres a couple of things I can't honor man
How you listen to a girl who still wanna man
Tell me the truth is that a man or Juwanna Man
I'm wonderin why she ret ta go like Wanda then
When we met you was a V like Madonna, man
Now you in the field runnin plays like Donovan
McNabb
 before you get in a cab
I trade in my cash
Just to take you back to last summer, man
You don't remember when you was my sweetest
You don't remember I called you Reese's Pieces
Cause it's no wrong way to do you know what
She turned around, giggled, said "You so nuts!"
But nowadays we actin' way too grown up
Like how ya ex girl get that new numba
The rumors was so numerous
For sticking' by me, I had to give you two thumbs up
And that's why
[Hook: Brandy]
[Outro: Brandy]
The more they talk about our love
The more they make it obvious
The more they seem so envious
How can they talk about our love
When they don't know one thing about
Instead they just runnin they mouthes
So all we do is tune them out
I don't wanna hear it no more


How many of you people came here with someone you love tonight. 
If you love somebody tonight, hold on real tight. Hold on, hold on. If you love somebody tonight, hold on real tight. If you love somebody tonight, hold on, hold on. Hold on tonight
Tonight I was thinking about being as safe as possible, I don't want to say nothing politically incorrect. [???] A very safe musician. I've been thinking about it. I've been thinking about going backstage and not saying nothing at all, is that cool? Uhh, before I go back there I got to ask you one question. Just one real quick. Just one. 
CAN I TALK MY SHIT AGAIN? CAN I TALK MY SHIT AGAIN?
 Can I talk my shit? Can I talk my shit? 
It's like I always find, I always find, I always find something wrong. Cause I've been putting up with they shit just way too long. I'm so gifted at finding what they don't like the most
. So if they find that they don't like the most
You know, it's so interesting cause they're trying to make me, like you just read the, Don't me ask about the motherfucking mask, you know what it comes off of. [?]. It's the Yeezus shit. 
You know when you, if you read the headlines and read like, random blogs or whatever the fuck they might put up, you know, it's funny how they, they always try to bring up the negative or, bring up the things that sound the most out of context.
 You know it's like, have you ever felt out of place ever, like, out of context like someone just didn't understand, like they just didn't understand what you wanted to do, what you was trying to do, or what, or what you was dreaming of. Have you ever, have you ever been scared to say, to say your dreams out loud? Have you ever been just a little bit afraid to say your dreams out loud? Have you been afraid to dream in front of a crowd, to dream in front of a crowd, to dream in front of a crowd, to dream out loud?
I had a dream. I had a dream that I was Steve Jobs. I had a dream that I was Walt Disney.
 
I had a dream that I was The Wright Brothers. I had a dream that I was Thomas Edison
. 
I had a dream that I was Mandela. I had a dream that I was Martin Luther King. I had a dream, I had a dream, I had a dream. I had a dream, I had a dream
. 
And I'm not afraid to dream out loud.
 You know you just get so scared that people are gonna think you're crazy, or that you're stupid, or that you're foolish, or 
this is the time that everybody thinks you're losing your mind, but I'm not losing my mind, I'm using my mind! I'm not losing my mind, I'm using my mind. So don't mind me, don't mind me, don't mind me. I'm not losing, I'm not losing my mind, I'm using my mind. So don't mind me, nevermind me, never, never, nevermind me
. 
If what I'm saying, appeals to you, and makes you feel like you can be a better you, than thats good for me. And if what I'm saying offends you, and makes you feel like the worst you, than that's good for me too, true. That's good for me too, true. That's good for me too, true
Cause there's only two types of people, there's dreamers and there's haters. There's dreamers and there's haters.
 And all I've been doing recently is cutting the grass real low. So if you a dreamer, everybody will know. And if you a hater, make yourself be seen, CAUSE I DON'T GIVE A FUCK ABOUT YOU, THATS WHAT I MEAN! Cut the grass real low, cut the grass real low, cut the grass real low. [?] I find [?], cause I feel like I just try sometimes. And I'm not afraid at all. I'm not afraid to fall. I'm not afraid to fall. I'm not afraid to fall. I'm not afraid at all. I'm not afraid at all. 
THEY CAN'T STAND ME! THEY CAN'T CONTROL ME! THEY CAN'T HOLD ME! THEY CAN'T HOLD ME! THEY CAN'T HOLD ME! THEY CAN'T HOLD ME!!! THEY CAN'T HOLD ME!
I ain't saying, when I say you I'm talking about public perception, I'm talking about backlash, I'm talking about all the tools they use to hold dreamers back, to make them look like motherfucking lunatics
. How many people you know, that you talk to on a day to day basis, that 
made a motherfucking mountain open up in Tampa tonight?
 So all the other shit I'm talking about, is it crazy or is it possible? Put your hands up if you think anything is possible. Put your hands up if you think anything is possible, if you think anything is possible, if you think anything is possible. Cause God made us in his image. And God made us all artists as children, God made us all artists as children. And somehow that peer pressure takes the artist out of you. Somehow the world can leave you so [?] confused, and you forget who you are. But I'm remembering, I'm remembering, I'm remembering
Cause most people, you know they say, they say people in my position, what ever that position is, like a celebrity or you make money, you have some type of status or some shit, you don't wanna fuck it up right? You don't wanna ruin your name, you don't wanna say anything wrong. 
So what you do is you get on TV you just smile, you just wave, and you try to be as safe as possible, cause you don't wanna fuck up enough, BUT I WANNA FUCK EVERYTHING UP!!! I WANNA FUCK EVERYTHING UP!
 I WANNA FUCK UP AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE 'CAUSE I'm STILL BEATING! As long as my heart is beating, as long as I'm dreaming. And I'mma stay kicking and dreaming, kicking and screaming, kicking and dreaming
I feel like it's my responsibility to turn up. I feel like it's my responsibility to turn up. And I stand here, the Gemini that I am, and there are so many examples throughout our history: Miles Davis, Biggie Smalls, Lauren Hill, Prince, 
2Pac
. The Gemini that I am, it is my responsibility to turn up and tell you the truth. And if I get in so much trouble for telling you the truth, and if I, if I get in so much trouble for telling you the truth, then the rest of the time, the rest of the time, what the fuck were they telling you? If I get in so much trouble for telling you the truth, then the rest of the time, what the FUCK were they telling you?!? What the fuck are they telling? So don't let nobody kill your dreams, don't let nobody tell you what you can do. Cause the more you accomplish, the more they wanna say you look like a fool. Following what you want to tonight, and you gotta an opportunity in the world
How many people are under 20 tonight? How many people are under 30 tonight? Under 40, under 50, under 60, 
GOD DAMMIT YOU ALIVE, YOU ALIVE, YOU ALIVE, YOU ALIVE, YOU ALIVE, YOU ARE LIVING, YOU ARE BREATHING, SO [??] YOU HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY IN THIS WORLD!!!


I'd rather just let the music speak for itself. You know, it's like, I was happy to be in a situation where people couldn't say, oh, I was trying to promote my own song.
 For the times that I've, like, defended myself... [Tape break] 
I'm pushing the envelope! I wrote my fuckin' 'Run This Town' verse for a fuckin' month!
 
When I heard Eminem's verse on the Drake shit, I went back and rewrote my shit for two days
. 
I canceled appointments to rewrite! I fuckin' care! You know what I'm saying? And that's what I'm saying.
 
Because I did that, Taylor Swift cannot win over Beyoncé! Because I wrote my verse in two days, Taylor Swift cannot beat Beyoncé.
 
As long as I'm alive! And if I'm alive, kill me then! Kill me then! As long as I'm alive, you gon' have to deal with it.
 
Cause there ain't gonna be no more motherfucking Elvises with no James Browns.
[A female voice asks, "Why are you so angry? What's the anger?"] 
Because my mother got arrested for the fuckin' sit-ins. My mother died for this fame shit!
 
I moved to fuckin' Hollywood chasing this shit.
 
My mother died because of this shit.
 
Fuck MTV.
It ain't no love. 
What the fuck was Pink performing?
 
Don't nobody know that song
. 
Pink performed twice! Two songs? How the fuck Pink perform twice, and I didn't even get asked to perform
 
"Heartless."
 
"Heartless" is the biggest song of the year! It had the most spins of the first quarter!
 
I don't know that Pink song! But I noticed that she's pink!
 They put me in a fuckin' room and [inaudible - maybe "projected it"].
[A male voice asks, "How the fuck did Eminem get the Best Hip-Hop song in 2008?"]
 Eminem won Best Video! Rap Video! Yo
, when he won that shit, I was so happy. I was so happy I [unclear - "ran all this shit," may
be]. I said, "Nigga, I'm gon' do this until y'all put a bullet in my head. I'm runnin' up to y'all, put a..." [tape cuts].


[Intro: E-40]
REMIX! (Ayyyyy!)
Ay man, ay it's by popular demand pimp, I need a fix, man
Dey demandin a remix, man!
(A remix, pimp? A remix!)
It's confirmed like a Don King perm (yeah, HA)
You got ya boy E-40, you got Kanye West
{IT'S ICE CUBE NIGGA!!}
Ooooooooohh...
[Hook: (Keak Da Sneak) E-40]
(Tell me when to go) Tell me when to go
(Tell me when to go) Tell me when to GOOOOOOO...
*repeat 2X*
("Dumb" "Dumb" "Dumb" "Du-du-dumb")
[Verse 1: E-40]
This bourbon and Carlos Rossi got me feelin like da Man of Steel
Energy hyphy drink (drink); spinner steerin wheel
Mardi Gras beads around my neck (neck), invisible set
Pull-outs (pull-outs!) diamonds on my mouth (BLING)
Rally stripes, hustle cars, vans and campers (campers)
My dude got handle bars, get out yer cameras (get out yer cameras)
Wet the tar down, break out the crates (oooh...)
We on the swerve ice skatin, doin figure eights (ERRRH!!!)
The King of Slang, they call me Ebonics ('bonics!)
I get stupid and dumb like Just Ice and Mantronix
("Dumb-dumb...")
 
...hear me out (out!)
The first motherfucker to even SPEAK about a "Drought" (uh-huh)
40, ya fool, I heard he's growin out his hair (yeah)
Sweaaar - yea, he takin it dere
UUHHH! (UUHHH!) - it's party music
Get used to it - the hyphy music!
AHH!
[Hook]
[E-40 - briefly over Hook]
Who you know could get Kanye West on the remix?
(OOOOOH!) 
Ay 'Ye, you know they love you in the Yay, boy!
(Ay) Speak on it!
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Ay, ay pimp, it's 'Ye, pimp
40 told me dey fuckin wit me in The Bay, pimp
So I'ma, ride down with the do's open (do's open manye)
Yeah - that's what'll get the hoes open (hoes open manye)
High-inch stilettos wit the toes open (toes open)
Yeah - and any haters get they nose broken (ooooh)
Now, tell me when to go, 
tell me where the ho's
You told me they was cold, now you act like they don't know like -
...Ummmmmmm (ummmm), Ummmmmm (ummmm)
I'mma hit the liquor sto', I'mma be on the low
I'mma have my hoodie on (yeah)
Call out my name and you know dey gon' go ("Dumb") (Dumb!)
You fuckin up my mode manye (mayne)
I tell you only call me by my code name (code name)
Dey al'edy recognize me from my gold chain (gold chain)
The same one I gave Keyshia Cole manye (Cole mayne)
Now go duuumb, like Cole
On Martin, I'm retarded ('ey!)
[Hook]
[Verse 3:Ice Cube]
YAY, tell me when to go, niggas get sick (yeah!)
Ice Cube on the mic, fifty-one-fifty (Ha!)
Nuttin but a fool, y'all know who wit me (yeah!)
A West Coast nigga named 
E-Fo' Liquor
 (oooh...)
We can drink malt liquor til the party get thicker (uh!)
Then I get sicker, and go-go dealer (Ayyyyy!)
Rollin thru the bank, doors open manye
Freaks on the side, walk hopin mayne
That dey can jump in, get a lil' sum-thin (uh)
Yo Geronimo, bitch cause I gotta go! (AYY!)
Burn rubber, leave it in the streets
Leave it them dope-ass Little Jon beats (yeah)
(Oooooh!) To make you go berserk 'til it hurts
Put in work, if you're scared "Go to Church" (yeah)
Shake them dreads nigga, FUCK them feds
I'm wit the E-4-Oh! (yea) Tell me when to go..
[Hook]


[Hook- E-40]
Tell me when to go, tell me when to go
Tell me when to go, tell me when to go
Dumb, dumb, dumb, d-d-dumb
Dumb, dumb, dumb, d-d-dumb
[Verse 1 - E-40]
This burgundy colored slushie got me feelin' like the man of steel
Extreme Hyphy energy drink, spinning steering wheel
Mardi Gras beads around my neck, invisible set
Pull outs, diamonds in my mouth
Rally stripes, hustle cars, vans and campers
My dude got handlebars, get out your cameras
Wet the tar down, break out the crates
We on the soil ice skatin' doin Figure 8s
King of slang, they call me E-Bonics
I get stupid and dumb like Just Ice and Mantronix
Hear me out
The first mothafucka to even speak about a drought
40 a fool, I hear he growin' out his hair
You swear? Yeah he's takin' it there
This party music, get used to it
The Hyphy movement
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
Ay, pimp it's Ye, pimp
40 told me they fuck with me in the Bay, pimp
So I'mma ride down with the do's open
Yeah that's the way to get the hoes open
Yeah, high inch stilettos with the toes open
And any haters get they nose broken
Now tell me when to go, tell me where the hoes
She told me they was cold now you act like you don't know
Like "ummmm, ummmm", I'mma hit the liquor store
I'mma be on the low, I'mma have my hoodie on
If you call out my name then you know they gon' go
Dumb, you fuckin' up my mode, man
I told you only call me by my codename
They already recognize me from my gold chain
The same one I gave Keyshia Cole, man
Now go dumb like Cole on Martin, I'm retarded
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Ice Cube]
Tell me when to go, niggas get silly
Ice Cube on the mic, 5150
Nothin' but a fool, y'all know who with me
A West Coast nigga name E-4 liquor
We can drink malt liquor till the party get thicker
Then I get sicker and go gorilla
Rollin' through the Bay, doors open, man
Freaks on the sidewalk, hopin', man
That they can jump in, get a little somethin'
Yell Geronimo, bitch cause I gotta go
Burn rubber, leave it in the streets
Leave it to them dope ass Lil Jon beats
To make you go bezerk till it hurts
Put in work, if you scared; go to church
Shake them dreads, nigga fuck them feds
I'm with E-4-O, tell me when to go
[Verse 4 - Game]
Yo, I get hyphy
And base All-Stars, Adidas, Hurricanes, Timberlands and Nikes
I'm so hyphy, snatch up wifeys
Got half the niggas in the NBA tryna fight me
I put down the ball, picked up the tech
I'm nice around mics like Ron Artest
Yeah, better for the West, 40 Water I'm on one
Jesus had dreads, so fuck it I'mma grow some
Then I'mma shake my shit
After that have a bitch braid my shit then chop it off and fade my shit
If L.A. is back, that mean the Bay is back
And the top on the CLK is back
I get dumb, dumb, with the windows tinted
Cops pulled the Benz over ain't nobody in it
Ghostride the whip, ghostride your shit
And when I get writer's block I goes ride your bitch
It go front, back then I pull it out
Now gas, brake the car peelin' out
First Master P, then Pac, then I came from the Bay
Don't do it for me, nigga do it for Mac Dre
[Hook]


[Hook]
We the Teriya-Kings Kings Kings Kings Kings [x4]
[Kanye West]
Verbal
 asked me do I need a pen?
Not right now
Everything I write now
I don't even write down
I don't need her right now
But I'm so bad
Ask her can she hold my gonads before they go bad
Since I did a song with Teriyaki I been acting very cocky
Using every opportunity to shit on everybody
If you heard I'll be in Houston like Bobby
Puffing on a blunt until the "B" got me body
There fees in the party?
Chillin' in the lobbies
Anything you heard happened, yo it probably did
Full Force trying to find where the Party is
For the last time to kick it like 
Karate Kid
Man that line was way obvious
Way out of my jurisdiction of my high snob
On my job kill a nigga no prob type flow
Just seen a nigga get Rob like Whoa!
Oh, should have tucked your chain
Niggas ain't playing man, it ain't a fuckin' game
All that frontin' for the audience
Make 'em not exist no more, Yugoslavians
(Japanese)
[Hook]
(Japanese)
[Hook]
(Japanese)
[Big Sean]
Hit the stage see the floor all the seats obsolete
We gonna probably need more
And I don't walk around with an ID
Hit the club watch them line up like IV?
And 
hop up on that motherfuckin' carpet like HI-G?
I'm trying to get paid so I feel like a Cosby! Ching-Ching
Ooh yeah, Teriyaki Boyz, Big Sean we here
So make sure that camera's recording
I'm so important outfits imported
And your girl said "
He's so ignorant"
So why the hell she can't ignore it
Dog, cause I'm everything you couldn't be
Everything you would be and everything I should be


[Verse 1]
She walk into the court her knees buckle
Saying for a man to survive he needn't hustle
Seen and been through struggle her whole life
Made a transition from being his ho to his wife
Stifling, the night upend the ATF bust in
Her daddy was a hustla, so she love them
Looked at the jury how can they judge him,
 she screamed
[Hook]
Before you lock my love away, before you lock my love away
Before you lock my love away, before you lock my love away
Please let me testify
[Verse 2]
Fear in her chest her face in tears
Had her man's back he was facing years
In her name though the place was his
They tryna take everything except the kids
For years she been through stumbling fights
While he tryna hustle that white
Up all night wondering if he's alive
Seeing him tried she bubbled inside and screamed
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
The judge yelled for order the court
Reporter making her words shorter
His lawyer sat next to him
She could see how the trial was affecting him
It hurt for her eyes to connect with him
Using her lies for protecting him
They arrested him for murder and gun possession
As they read back her confession, she screamed
[Hook]
[Verse 4]
The court awaited as the foreman got the verdict from the bailiff
Emotional outbursts tears and smeared makeup
He stated, he was guilty on all charges
She's shaking looking like she took it the hardest
A spin artist, she brought her face up laughing
That's when the prosecutor realized what happened
All that speaking her mind, testifying and crying
When this bitch did the crime, the queenpin
[Hook]
[Outro]
You accuse me of a, you accuse me of a, you accuse
Please let me testify, please let me testify


[Produced by Busta Rhymes]
[Intro: Lil Wayne]
Woo, welcome to the bank
Where you deposit Young Money and you get Cash Money
I'm Tunechi the Boss
And live from the vault is Busta Buss
[Verse 1: Busta Rhymes]
Swag mania, pop that goes most
Carry the most beautiful bitches
With us, happily toast
Keep the faculty close
Gross when we give them a dose
Got them ODing, leaning in each coast
Scenery froze, take notes, Rock Rolls
Diamonds that fit in Chanel Minks in the winter
Who fucking with us
We coming to give them the shivers
Watery flows, spilling like rivers
Flooding the street, hoping niggas swimming is moving gorillas
King Kongs, Godzillas when we roll up
Seat filling niggas, get up when we show up
[Verse 2: Q-Tip]
Please don't throw up
Hold your liquor, grow up
If you robbing niggas
We going to show you how to blow up
Thank your lucky stars
It's the Rap Czar, tuck your shit in
My niggas bite like Rin Tin Tin
, my chagrin
You never win, model thin, walking crack in your shin
She gives in every time that I spin
Square up, bow down to the kings of the hall
We wade on, talk shit while we ball
So what's cracking with y'all
[Verse 3: Busta Rhymes]
Native New Yorker
And the slick talker featured in order
Call the reporter
Stepping like the British walkers
Legendary swag flu and see the influence, see how we do it
Get them into it steadily God, I'm stupid, so undisputed
Act fool, back tool, until they pop off
Police crowd up the street, blocking them off, locking them off
Got these niggas wilding while I signal my soldiers
Bossing it up, maintaining composure, stand on the sofa
Thirty bottles, twenty waitresses, bring them over
See how we light up shit, nigga, call the promoter
And tell that nigga bring the bag, better hurry up with it
And count the money up proper, cause you can GET IT
[Interlude: Kanye West]
Yeah
It feel good, don't it, uh
It feel good, don't it, uh
Ay, I want to let y'all know, ay ay
I want to let y'all know, this Yeezy
And you listening to Q-Tip
[Verse 4: Q-Tip]
Settle up, stiletto up, saddle up and let's go
Good times, only difference, niggas making your dough
Chatter is up, peep the way we batter it up
On top of the mountain, folding the ladder up
You dead and done rip up your paper, cause your status is none
Transfixed on the strengths of the page, whether chopper or gauge
You're just a single, cause you wouldn't engage
You turnt up with the script on the cup, you keep the goblets with us
[Verse 5: Busta Rhymes]
See how we push sometimes a man fi get kuff, beat him in the head
Boop-be-de-de-boff, zippity-boof
Beat him in the head again, "stop killing me, Wolf", whop
Beat a nigga till he drop, piggity-poof
Oxy in me pulse
He don't want no problem with niggas
Fuck it, let's get to drinking, poison our livers
Dammit, we sinners when me and 
Abstract
 are together, see we 
deliver
She got me 
touching it
, 
fucking on all my fingers
, dammit, we winners
Pillar of this rap shit, homie, they know
Kill everything until it's time for me to go
That's when I bomb it with a blow
And then I black and get a little bit dummy
The microphone is bleeding, you should take it from me
[Verse 6: Q-Tip]
Incredibly we do it, and it resonates the music
I tune it, YouTube it, it could never ever be refuted
It's gnarly for niggas
 
and naughty for ninas
Bitches and ballerinas
Ballers and in-betweeners
Blatant non-believers and over-achievers
Kicking it in Pele Adidas
Drinking gallons and liters
All of you must reconcile a leader
She's begging to eat us, and her man's attitude defeated
But never a scandal
Because me and Bus we're prone to handle it, we're gentlemen
[Verse 7: Busta Rhymes]
Not to mention, we're veterans
Second, he need some medicine
Before I black as he get off my premises
Better fly, you pelican,
 idiot ass niggas
But then again, you need a suit for your funeral measurements
See me doing it effortless
It's never getting no better than this
Giving your shit to convince a better preference
Watch me turn them to skeletons
See how I come and bring out the betterness
Time is with it and I rep the foreverness
Flying, United Emirates, sized private plane, that kind of etiquette
Purchasing diamonds, handle them delicate
Now you need you a better ref
You could peep us regulating, see we all in this bitch like we ain't never left
[Outro]
I want to thank you Heavenly Father
For shining your light on me
I want to thank you Heavenly Father
For shining your light on me
I know it couldn't have happened without you
Ooo-ooh without you-ooooooohhh
Without you-ohh
Without you


[Sway]: The most important artist of this generation. 
Over 21 Grammy's.
 
6 Consecutive number 1 albums.
 
One of the most impactful voices to ever grab a microphone. One of the most talented producers to ever produce music, fashion, art. One of the most prolific people to ever speak on behalf of his thoughts; to trigger emotions and trigger thoughts of you. One of the most clever people to ever manipulate the internet.
 I watched him go from:
[Kanye West]: 
Sway you gotta hear my rhymes man you gotta hear my rhymes I know I make beats but you gotta hear my rhymes
[Sway] Being on the train, Amtrak train going to Philly, 
to now being mentioned alongside the President of the United States, more than once.
 We talk about President Obama, but you forgot some of the things that this man as said to really go against the grain and challenge thought fearlessly. For example:
[Kanye West]: George Bush doesn't care about black people
[Kanye West]: And another thing is, people are so gay-conscious now. That's like the whole thing like with the Internet — every day, somebody's- "Ooh I can tell he gay now!" you know, but back in the day, people used to have songs like "Get In That Ass" or something like that
[Kanye West]: Remind me who's the original superfly, and I got love for Hov but I ain't fucking with that Suit and Tie
[Sway]: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome for the first time to 
Sway in the Morning
 here at 
Shade 45
: the one, the only, the incomparable, Kanye West!
[Sway]: What's is going to happen with the Red Octobers?
[Kanye West]: You know Nike told me when I asked them? "We ain't sure." You know what they told the store though, of my- of my boy that run the store? They said 
"if you want that Red October, you gotta take these 10 other shoes."
 So they told me, they ain't sure, but then they told them, if you want that Red October- but legally, we gotta both sign that contract, 
Mark Parker.
 
I'mma put Mark Parker all on that Summer Jam screen.
 
And by the way, Mark Parker, yes I will still accept an investment in Donda.
 I got some more ideas that don't involve shoes. But if you guys that're investing in the arts, y'all don't want to invest in the school in Brazil, y'all wanna go to Africa, I am standing up and I'm telling you, 
I am Warhol.
 I am the number one most impactful artist of our generation. 
I am Shakespeare in the flesh.
 Walt Disney. Nike. Google. 
Now who's gonna be the Medici family and stand up and let me create more;
 
or do you wanna marginalize me 'til I'm out of my moment
[Sway]: But why don't you empower yourself and don't need them and do it yourself?
[Kanye West]: How Sway!
[Sway]: Take a few steps back, and-
[Kanye West (and Sway)]: You ain't got the answers man! You ain't got the answers! (Kanye) You ain't got the answers, Sway! (Kanye) I been doing this more than you! (Doing what more than me?) You ain't got- (C'mon, chill out, bro!) You ain't got the answers! (Kanye, relax!) You ain't got the answers! (Bro, rela- I'm asking you a question!) You ain't been doing the education. (Bro!) You ain't been doing the education! (Kanye, calm down!) You don't have the answers though. (Calm down!) Because you trying to give me advice about something- (No! No no no no, listen) You ain't- You ain't got the answers! You ain't spend 13 million dollars of your own money trying to empower yourself!
[Sway]: I know, and you're absolutely right, but I've spent hundreds and thousands putting out clothing line at a smaller degree
[Kanye West]: And that and that ain't Ralph though! It ain't Ralph level
[Sway]:
[Kanye West]: What's the name of your clothing line? We don't know
No man you don't have the answers
[Sway]: Why is it that you can't?
[Kanye West]: I just told you I lost the money
[Sway]:Okay so you dont have money
You dont have to turn up
This ain't no fucking show
Ain't no homie
Ain't no ain't no hold up
Ain't no hold
I can make shit rhyme
I can make shit rhyme if I'm
Feel like, even if I, don't
Sorry just, might not, cause I
Don't want, and I'm just gon'
Freestyle, for the first time
With a, freestyle, that don't, even go together, oh
No rhymes, that's my new shit, nothing rhyme
How that sound, uh oh, woh
You ain't got the answers, Sway
I can say it all, night


Executive Producers: 
Shawn Carter, Damon Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke
A&R Director: 
Kyambo "Hip Hop" Joshua
A&R: Lenny S. and 
Gee Roberson
A&R Coordinator: Darcell Lawrence
A&R Administration: Rob Mitchell
Recording Administration: Tony Vanias
Mastered at Masterdisk, NYC
 by 
Tony Dawsey
Marketing: 
Deidre Graham
 and 
Chaka Pilgrim
Management: Roc-A-Fella Management
Art Direction: Jason Noto
Photography: Jonathan Mannion
Architectural Imagery: Della Valle + Berheimer Design
Legal Counsel: Michael Guido and Jennifer Justice
Business Affairs: Jonathan Lieberman and Susan Sneider
 (S. Carter, R. Harrel, P. Hurtt, 
B. Sigler
) (BMI/SESAC) Produced by Bink for One Shot Deal Muzak/J II J Enterprises/Loreal, Inc. 
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Mixed at Sound on Sound Studios, NYC by Doug Wilson for Loreal, Inc. 
Bass by Eric "E Bass" Johnson.
 Strings by Keyamo
 (S. Carter, K. West, L. Parker, E. Burdon, A. Lomax, B. Chandler, R. Lemay, 
J. Morrison, J. Densmore, R. Krieger, R. Manzarek
) (BMI/ASCAP) 
Produced by Kanye West
 for Roc The World/Kanman Productions. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 and 
Kamel Adbo
 for Beat From The Middle East. Mixed at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton
 for Loreal, Inc. 
Additional vocals by Josey Scott of Saliva.
 
"Takeover" contains a sample of "Sound of Da Police (L. Parker, E. Burdon, A. Lomax, B. Chandler, R. Lemay)
 Zomba Enterprises Inc. 
o/b/o
 itself & BDP Music (ASCAP)/Unichappell Music Inc. o/b/o itself/Slamina Music, Inc./Carbert Music, Inc./Ludlow Music Inc. (BMI)/Universal PolyGram International Publishing Inc. o/b/o London Music UK and Soulclap Music (ASCAP). All rights reserved. Performed by KRS-One, used courtesy of Zomba Recording Group. "Takeover" features samples from 
The Doors recording "Five To One."
 Produced under license from Elektra Entertainment Group. By arrangement with Warner Special Products
 (S. Carter, 
K. West
, 
B. Gordy, A. Mizell, F. Perren, D. Richards
) (BMI/ASCAP) 
Produced by Kanye West for Roc The World/Kanman Productions
. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 and Kamel Adbo for Beat From The Middle East. Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by 
Supa Engineer DURO
 for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc. "Izzo" contains elements from 
"I Want You Back"
 (B. Gordy, A. Mizell, F. Perren, D. Richards) Jobete Music Co., Inc. (ASCAP) Performed by The Jackson 5. Used courtesy of Motown Record Company LP, under license from Universal Music Enterprises, a division of UMG Recordings, Inc
 (
S. Carter, J. Smith, T. Brock, R. Reif
) (BMI/ASCAP) 
Produced by Just Blaze
 for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Entertainment/Roc The World. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 and Kamel Adbo for Beat From The Middle East. Mixed at Baseline Studios, NYC by Jason Goldstein. Additional vocals by Q-Tip, Slick Rick and Biz Markie. 
"Girls, Girls, Girls" contains samples from "I Love You More and More Every Time" (T. Brock, R. Relf)
 Unichappell Music, Inc. (BMI)/Sa-Vette Music (BMI)/Super Songs Unlimited (BMI. All rights reserved. Performed by Tom Brock. Used courtesy of Universal Music Enterprises, a division of UMG Recordings, Inc
 (S. Carter, J.C. Oliver, S. Barnes) (BMI/ASCAP) Produced by Poke & Tone for Track Masters Entertainment Inc. NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Assisted by 
Shane "Bermi" Woodley
. Mixed at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Jason Goldstein.
 Additional vocals by Stephanie Miller and Michelle Mills
 (S. Carter, J. Smith, B. Byrd) (BMI/ASCAP) Produced by 
Just Blaze
 for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management/Roc The World. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Assisted by Shane "Bermi" Woodley. Mixed at Baseline Studios, NYC by Jason Goldstein. "U Don't Know" contains a sample from 
"I'm Not To Blame" (Bobby Byrd
) Unichappell Music, Inc. o/b/o Dynatone Publishing Co. (BMI). All right reserved. Performed by Bobby Byrd. Used courtesy of Universal Music Enterprises, a division of UMG Recordings, Inc. All rights reserved
 (S. Carter, T. Mosley) (BMI) 
Produced by Timbaland for Timbaland Productions, Inc.
 
Recorded at Manhattan Center, NYC by Jimmy Douglas. Mixed at Capitol Studios, LA by Jimmy Douglas
 (S. Carter, K. West, M. Price, D. Walsh) (BMI/ASCAP) Produced by Kanye West for Roc The World/Kanman Productions. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 and Kamel Adbo for Beat From The Middle East. Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer DURO for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc. 
"Heart of the City (Ain't No Love)" contains samples from "Ain't No Love In The Heart Of The City"
 (M. Price, D. Walsh) Universal Music Publishing. 
Performed by Bobby "Blue" Bland.
 Used courtesy of Universal Music Enterprises, a division of UMG Recordings, Inc
 (S. Carter, 
K. West
, 
B. Miller
) (BMI/ASCAP) Produced by Kanye West for Roc The World/Kanman Productions. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 and Kamel Adbo for Beat From The Middle East. Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Jason Goldstein. "Never Change" contains samples from 
"Common Man"
 (B. Miller) Stone Diamond Music (BMI). Performed by David Ruffin. Used courtesy of Universal Music Enterprises, a division of UMG Recordings, Inc
 (S. Carter, J. Smith, D. Gibbs, R. Johnson) (BMI/ASCAP) Produced by 
Just Blaze
 for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management/Roc The World. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Assisted by Shane "Bermi" Woodley. Mixed at Baseline Studios, NYC by Jason Goldstein. "Song Cry" contains samples from 
"Sounds Like A Love Song" (D. Gibbs, R. Johnson)
 Extra Slick Music (ASCAP)/Chitty Chitty Music (ASCAP) both administered by Heavy Harmony Music. All rights reserved. Performed by Bobby Glenn. Used courtesy of Koala Records, Inc
 (S. Carter, R. Harrell) (BMI/SESAC) Produced by Bink for One Shot Deal Muzak/J II J Enterprises/Loreal, Inc. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Mixed at Sound on Sound Studios, NYC by Doug Wilson for Loreal, Inc
 (feat. Eminem) (S. Carter, M. Mathers) (BMI) Produced by Eminem for Angry Blond Productions, Inc. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Mixed at Studio A 
Recording by Richard Huredia.
 Eminem appears courtesy of Aftermath Entertainment
 (S. Carter, R. Harrel, A. Green) (BMI/SESAC) Produced by Bink for One Shot Deal Muzak/J II J Enterprises/Loreal, Inc. Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Gimel "Young Guru" Keaton for Loreal, Inc.
 Mixed at Sound on Sound Studios, NYC by Doug Wilson for Loreal, Inc. Organs by Bo. 
Live Organs by Victor Flowers.
 Background vocals by Schevise Harrell and Luren Leek. All programming by Bink. "Blueprint (Momma Loves Me)" contains a sample from 
"Free At Last" (A. Green)
 Universal Music. Publishing o/b/o Irving Music Inc. (BMI) Irving Music Inc./Al Green Music Inc. (BMI)/Warner-Chappell Music Ltd. Performed by Al Green. Used courtesy of EMI Special Markets and Demon Music Group
Guest appearance by Q-Tip courtesy of Arista Records, Inc
Guest appearance by Slick Rick courtesy of Def Jam Recordings
Guest appearance by Biz Markie courtesy of Groove Attack
 Superrapping/Bizmont
 I wanna thank everyone responsible for The Blueprint (my life) my Momma Love Me (Gloria Carter) Pop I miss you (A.J.) Eric fought me (my big bro Ez) Mickey dressed me/my big mouth sister Michelle/Annie fed me (my other big mouth sister Andrea) Grandma fed me banana pudding (my heart Hattie White) 
my nephews
 (Lavelle, 
Ramel
, 
Colleek
, Jarrel and Eric Jr. My niece Airis and my niece Tianna (Love you 'til death, wouldn't let no trouble come your way!!!) All my Aunts, Uncles, Cousins, Bee High and Fam (Johnny, BJ, Shakora, Danny, Antawn, Brandon) "Ty rolled with a n***a" (Ty-Ty and the whole Smith family), Damon Dash (you seen it Huh?) my Godson Boogie, Ava, Biggs, (What's up Hoffa?) Biggs, Lil Remo. Hip Hop (since 1972). Bleek (one Hit Away my n***a). Beans (I been there fam trust me)...Marcy and The Whole Entire Brooklyn, I Got Ya'll!!!!(S. Carter, J. Smith, W. Cunnigham)
Produced by Just Blaze
 for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management & Enigma Music Group
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by 
Chauncey Mahan
 for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Soundtrack Studios, NYC by 
Supa Engineer "DURO"
 for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Assisted by Greg Smith
"Intro" contains a sample of "She Said She Loves Me"
 (W. Cunningham), published by H&R LaStrada, Sony/ATV Tunes, LLC and Stonseee Music (ASCAP), performed by Kleeer, used under license from Warner Special Products o/b/o Atlantic Records. All rights reserved. Used by permission
(S. Carter, R. Thomas, 
M. Cox
, 
D. Grant
)
Produced by Rick Rock
 for Cypher Cleff Music
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Mixed at Right Track Studios
, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Pro Tools programming by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Additional vocals by Static from Playa
Static appears courtesy of Def Jam Records
(S. Carter, 
P. Williams
, C. Hugo, J. Johnson, 
C. Wallace
, D. Angelettie, S. Combs, K. Walker, 
T. Shaw
)
Produced by Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo for The Neptunes
Recorded and mixed at Enterprise Studios, LA by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Additional vocals by Pharrell and Sparks
Pharrell of NERD appears courtesy of Virgin Records
"I Just Wanna Love U (Give It 2 Me)" 
embodies interpolations of "Give It To Me"
 
(J. Johnson)
 published by Jobete Music Co., Inc.; 
"The World Is Filled..."
 (C. Wallace, D. Angelettie, S. Combs, K. Walker, T. Shaw), published by EMI April Music Inc./Justin Combs Publishing/Big Poppa Music/EMI Blackwood Music, Inc./Deric Angelettie Music/Wind Tiger Music/Strand Music/Zomba Songs Inc.; and 
"I Wish" (M. Flowers)
 used courtesy of Mike City Music. All rights reserved. Used by permission
4. 
(S. Carter, J. Smith, D. Grant)
Produced by Just Blaze for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management & Enigma Music Group
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor and 
Young Guru for Loreal, Inc
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Pro Tools programming by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
5. 
 (Jay-Z and Beanie Sigel feat. Scarface)
(S. Carter, K. West, D. Grant, M. Cox, 
B. Jordan
, K. Gamble, L. Huff)
Produced by Kanye West
 for Kanman Productions
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Scarface appears courtesy of Rap-A-Lot Records
"This Can't Be Life" contains an interpolation of 
"I Miss You"
 (
K. Gamble, L. Huff
), published by Warner Tamerlane Publishing Corp. (BMI)
All rights reserved. Used by permission
6. 
(S. Carter, R. Thomas, M. Cox, 
C. Broadus
)
Produced by Rick Rock for Cypher Cleff Music
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Soundtrack Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Additional Vocals by Rell
Snoop Dogg appears courtesy of Priority Records, LLC
7. 
(S. Carter, J. Smith, D. Grant, N. Ingram)
Produced by Just Blaze for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management & Enigma Music Group
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Soundtrack Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Additional Vocals by DJ Clue
All scratches by Just Blaze
"Stick 2 The Script" contains elements of 
"Under Pressure,"
 
by The copyright in this composition and sound recording is owned by
 KPM Music Ltd. Rights for the composition in the U.S. and Canada c/o EMI April Music Inc. (ASCAP). Used by permission. All rights reserved
8. 
(S. Carter, R. Harrel, M. Cox, D. Grant, A. Whitehead, W. Goodman, W. Morris, H. Ray)
Produced by Bink
 for One Shot Deal Inc./J II J Enterprises
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Electric Lady Studios
, NYC by Doug Wilson for Loreal, Inc
Amil appears courtesy of Roc-A-Fella/Columbia Records
"You, Me, Him, and Her" contains a sample of 
The Moments' recording of "What's Your Name"
 (W. Goodman, W. Morris, H. Ray), published by Gambi Music Inc. and Twenty-Nine Black Music (BMI)
Produced under license from Rhino Entertainment
 Co. By arrangement with Warner Special Products
9. 
(S. Carter, D. Stinson, 
R. Kelly
)
Produced by Rockwilder for F-5 Productions
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Soundtrack Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
All R. Kelly vocals written, produced and arranged by R. Kelly
Recorded by 
Ian Mereness
 and 
Abel Garibaldi
 at Rockland Studios, Chicago, 
ILL
Assisted by 
Andy Gallas
R. Kelly appears courtesy of Jive Records
10. 
(S. Carter, R. Thomas, M. Cox, D. Grant)
Produced by 
Rick Rock
 for Cypher Cleff Music
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Quad Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Additional vocals by 
Lil' Mo
Lil' Mo appears courtesy of EastWest Records/
Elektra Entertainment Group
11. 
(M. Cox, B. Biggs)
Produced by B-High
 for Between Friends and Memphis Bleek for Get Lo Productions
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
12. 
(
S. Carter, R. Harrel, M. Cox, D. Grant, A. Schefrin, M. Zeger
)
Produced by Bink for One Shot Deal Inc./J II J Enterprises
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Electric Lady, NYC by Doug Wilson for Loreal, Inc
Freeway appears courtesy of Black Friday
"1-900-Hustler" contains a sample of "Ain't Gonna Happen" (A. Schefrin, M. Zager), published by MZP Music Inc. (BMI), performed by Ten Wheel Drive w/Gemua Ravan
, used under license from Universal Music Enterprises. All rights reserved. Used by permission
(M. Cox, D. Grant, J. Smith)
Val's Chiold/Shakur Al-Din/Hitco South/F.O.B. Music Publishing (ASCAP)
Produced by Just Blaze for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management & Enigma Music Group
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Soundtrack Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
(S. Carter, J. Smith)
Produced by Just Blaze for F.O.B. Entertainment/N.Q.C. Management & Enigma Music Group
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Pro Tools programming by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
"Soon You'll Understand" 
contains a sample of "Love Theme" (A. Cooper) from motion picture 
, published by EMI Unart Catalog Inc. (BMI), performed by Al Cooper
, under license from MGM Music. All rights reserved. Used by permission
15. 

(S. Carter, R. Thomas)
Produced by Rick Rock for Cypher Cleff Music
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Right Track Studios, NYC by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
16. 
(S. Carter, E. Delaltoz, D. Grant, R. Garcia Perez Botija)
Produced by T.T. for Full Deck Entertainment
Recorded at Baseline Studios, NYC by Chauncey Mahan for The C-Factor
Assistant Engineer Shane "Bermy" Woodley
Mixed at Enterprise Studios, LA by Supa Engineer "DURO" for No Question Entertainment/Loreal, Inc
Additional vocals by L. Dionne
"Where Have You Been" contains a sample from "
Agua De Dos Rios
" (
R. Garcia Perez Botija[Produced By: Jeff Bhasker, Kanye West & Q-Tip]
[Intro: Kanye West]
Hello, can I speak to, uh..
Yeah, you know who you are, look
You had no idea what ya dealing with
Something on some of this realest shit
Pop champagne, I'll give you a sip
'bout to go dumb: how come?
Yeah that's my bitch, that's my bitch
Shorty right there? That's my bitch
[Hook: Elly Jackson]
I've been waiting for a long long time
Just to get off and throw my hands up high
And live my life and live my life
Just to get off and throw my hands up high
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I paid for them titties, get your own
It ain't safe in the city, watch the throne
She say I care more about them basquions
Basquiats, she learning a new word, it's yacht
Blew the world up as soon as I hit the club with her
Too Short called, told me I fell in love with her
Seat by actors, ball players and drug dealers
And some lesbians that never loved niggas
Twisted love story, 
Mary Magdalene from a pole dance
I'm a freak, huh, rock star life
The second girl with us, that's our wife
Hey boys and girls, I got a new riddle
Who's the new old perv that's tryna play second fiddle
No disrespect, I'm not tryna belittle
But my dick worth money
 
I put Monie in the middle
Where she at? In the middle
[Hook]
[Bridge: Justin Vernon]
Swilling little licks and mixes ’til mornin',
 
I'm yearnin', ooh yeah
Could I maybe have another dab of your potion?
Stop motion, ooh, yeah
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Go harder than a nigga for a nigga go figure
Told me keep my own money if we ever did split up
How can somethin' so gangsta be so pretty in pictures?
Ripped jeans and a blazer and some Louboutin slippers
Uh, Picasso was alive he woulda made her
That's right nigga Mona Lisa can't fade her
I mean Marilyn Monroe, she's quite nice
But why all the pretty icons always all white?
Put some colored girls in the MoMA
Half these broads ain’t got nothing on Willona
Don’t make me bring Thelma in it
Bring Halle, bring Penélope and Salma in it
Back to my Beyoncés
You deserve three stacks, word to André
Call Larry Gagosian, you belong in museums
You belong in vintage clothes crushing the whole building
You belong with niggas who used to be known for dope dealing
You too dope for any of those civilians
Now shoo children, stop looking at her tits
Get ya own dog, ya heard? That's my bitch
[Hook]


At number 5 we start with the 
conceptually beautiful 
. Partners in crime 
Donald Glover
 & 
Ludwig Goransson
 deliver an 808 bass line and intuitive use of equipment to snare a nostalgic sound. I had the pleasure of speaking to Goransson about the beat and he commented on 
the use of an iPhone microphone to capture Donald's voice, essentially making him sound like a sample.
 It worked wonders, the overlap of Donalds crooning on the aged sonics works a treat!
At #4, 
Noah "40" Shebib 
 flips the script on a Whitney Houston track for the intro to Drake's album 
.
 The elaborate introduction is comprised of not two, but three different instrumentals as "40" flexes his full diversity as a producer. 
A new feature of Producer Genius includes an interactive Soundcloud breakdown, with such a complex beat be sure to check out the official Producer Genius breakdown here, just like 10,000 other people did!
Speaking to our very own Notero, Push detailed the aesthetic of the beat; explaining it's similarity to 
RZA and Raekwon's 
 
Arguably the best "traditional" hip hop beat of the year
, 
produced by Don Cannon & Kanye West
; the raw, dirty knocking of the drums brings Push to a whole new level of wordplay. In the words of the King Pin:
In one of the most underrated bangers of the year, Just Blaze and Baauer team up and take our #2 spot. This extraordinary EDM track features banging drums, a shifting bass line and all the synths in the world. 
Just Blaze even convinced Hov to sample him on the track
, creating an infectious hook to go with the instrumental. 
The video, directed by Nabil paints the perfect picture of an interesting piece of art, be sure to watch and follow the stor
y!
In undoubtedly one of the most controversial 
 of the year, Kanye does what he does best and takes two polarising samples, mashes them together and creates 
something no one else could
. 
The emphasis of Nina Simone's rendition of "Strange Fruit", a song with deep racist connotations gives the instrumental depth
 while the 
blaring horns of TNGHT have "Banger of the Year" written all over them,
 perfectly complimenting the piano and well-synchronized drums!


[Produced by Dave Tozer, Hit Boy & Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
Last night was the last night
You'll ever spend alone
Couldn’t wait, did it in the living room
Soon as I saw you, baby, I had plans
Plans to do it 'til we have a baby
Even if the world is crazy
Pick some names, boy or girl
Then we’ll change, change the world
[Hook]
So after you change your clothes
Girl, if you change your mind
I’m ready, whatever time
It’s the beginning of forever
You don’t have to call
Sometimes you just know
It’s the beginning of forever
You don’t have to end
Keep doing it, and doing it again, oh
Keep doing it, and doing it again, oh
[Verse 2]
Last time was the last time, I was worn and done
You the best, that's why I want another one
Soon as I saw you, baby I had plans
Plans to take you to my elevator
And cook a little breakfast later
Pick a place and go there, girl
Then we’ll change, change the world
[Hook]



 The 
O.G. Juan
 and The Whole Baseline Crew (Moya, Midnight, Shane, Kamel, Tyse and Paul) Rell Mack, Bob-A Lob, S.A., Street, Claudia B, The Whole 142! Dolfo, Roger, Tom Dewey, Tone, Dat, 
Jaz
 (You made me believe this s**t was real) Omoyele (Fam Fam), Murder, Leeky, Geda K. Saddiq, Roller, The Whole Mafia, The Whole Get Low, Bill, Snow, Ermani, Tone (Lil Man) Chuck, Ant, Deuce & Rasta, Curt Love, Emory, Big Ty, Kurt, Lody Christ. 
Hold Ya Head We Got Your Name on the Bricks.
 Everybody on the street. I Know Too Many Folks. Sorry!!!!!!!!!!!
 
Carline
, Chaka, John, Lenny S., Gee, Dara, Bobby, Pharel, Burt, Emmanuelle, Garvin, John B., Daryl, Robin, Shari, Ramses
Thank you Guido, JJ, Big John, 
Jimmy Iovine
, 
Steve Stoute
, 
Paul Rosenberg
, Ian Allen and 
Eric Weissman
Lyor
, 
Kevin
, Julie, Randy, Kyser, Deidre, Darcel, Mignon and the Def Jam Staff
 DJ Clue and Rell, Freeway, Oschino & Sparks, 
Chris & Neef
, Tamika & Billie, Allen Anthony
...we got this!
 
Kanye West
, 
Just Blaze
, Trackmaster, 
Timbaland
, Bink, Eminem
 Danielle, Latrice, Will, Travis, Derrick, Raymond (Chico), "Big Daddy" (Pause), Antoine, Donald, Mike Eric, Damon, Anchor, Maze, Jake, Say, Godfather, Sean, Bill Blass, Lenny, DJ Lump, C-note, T
To This Whole Fake Bulls**t Industry, Thanx 4 being so Fake and Keeping me on my Toes!!! I Love Ya'll 


[Intro: Jay-Z]
Uhh, just point out the bounce
Uh-huh, show me the bounce, yeah
Just point out the bounce, yeah
Timbo the king, yeah
Young Hov' the king
, yeah
Just point out the bounce
Yes, just point out the bounce nigga
Yo, listen
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Rumor has it "The Blueprint" classic
Couldn't even be stopped by Bin Laden
So September 11th marks the era forever
Of a revolutionary Jay Guevera
Now it's a whole museum of, Hov MCers
Everybody dupin the flow, you see 'em
Everybody loopin up soul
It's like you tryin to make 
 before Hov
Shout out to Just Bleezy and, Kan-yeezy
See how we adjusted the game so easy
Chicks belly dancin, glancin every chance they get
Like - oh shit, he's so handsome
Still in demand in the longest run standin
Kidnap rap seven years, no ransom
Can't one nigga get it back no rap
Young Hov's goin to Canton, I'm now eligible
[Hook: Jay-Z]
Point out the bounce - and show you how to get this dough in
Large amounts 'til it's hard to count
Point out the bounce - 
I turn a 8 to an ounce
To a whole ki to the R.O.C
Point out the bounce - Timbo the king nigga
Uhh, yeah, uhh
Point out the bounce - jeah, Young Hov' the king nigga
Uhh, I got y'all
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
For those that think Hov fingers bling bling'n
Either haven't heard the album or they don't know English
They only know what the single is, and single that out
To be the meaning of what he is about
And bein I'm about my business, not minglin much
Runnin my mouth, that shit kept lingerin
But no dummy, that's the shit I'm sprinklin'
The album width to keep the registers ringin'
In real life, I'm much more distinguished
I'm like a bloke from London, England
Jeah, you jinglin' baby
See I go right back and I bring 'em in baby
Business mind of a Ross Perot, but never lost my soul
Crossed the line, I bought pop across the row
Then I walk through the hood, where they up to no good
Slangin them O's like a real O.G. should
Oh, he's good, no he would never sell out he's so hood
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Magazines call me a rock star,
 
girls call me cock star
Billboard, pop star, neighborhood block star
Chi-Town go-gettin pimps, we mobsters
Gingerbread Man even said, "You're a monster!"
Yeah, that's how I feel
To be down, you must appeal
To the crew, we're rated R
O.C.
, 
O.G., Bobby Johnson son
Ask me, "Ray Ray, is that yo' car?"
I seen MTV, I know who you are
You did "Takeover," do you got beef with Nas?
I did take over the game, brought back the soul
Got tracks to go, got plaques that's gold
Platinum to go, yeah that's the flow
All I, know, 
I gots to blow
And I don't play pause I'm from Chicago
[Hook]
Point out the bounce {5X}


Kanye West - The College Dropout


[Produced By: Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
He came back, in the same suit that he was buried in
Similar to the one his grandfather was married in
Yes, he was still fresh to death
Bling, two earrings, a chain layin' on his chest
He still had it cause they couldn't find it
And the bullets from his enemies sat like two inches behind it
Smelled the Hennessy from when his niggas got reminded
And poured out liquor in his memory, he didn't mind it
But he couldn't sip it fast enough
So the liquor was just fillin' the casket up
Floatin' down by his feet was the letter from his sister
Second grade handwriting simply read "I miss ya"
Suit jacket pocket held his baby daughter's picture
Right next to it, one of his mans stuck a swisher
He had a notion as he laid there soakin'
He saw that the latch was broken
He kicked his casket open and he
[Hook]
This life goes passin' you by
It might go fast if you like
You born, you lived, and you die
If life goes passin you by, don't cry
If you're breaking the rules, making your moves, paying your dues
Chasing the cool
[Verse 2]
Not at all nervous as he dug to the surface
Tarnished gold chain is what he loosened up the earth with
He used his mouth as a shovel to try and hollow it
And when he couldn't dirt-spit, he swallowed it
Workin' like a, hmm, reverse archaeologist
Except, his buried treasure was sunshine
So when some shine through a hole that he had drove
It reflected off the gold and almost made son blind
He grabbed onto some grass and climbed
Pulled himself up out of his own grave,
 
and looked at the time
On the watch that had stopped 6 months after the shots
That'd got him in the box,
 
wringin' Henny out his socks
Figured it was hours because he wasn't older
Used some flowers to brush the dirt up off his shoulder
So, with a right hand that was all bones
And with no reason to stay he decided to walk home so he
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
He begged for some change to get him on the train
"Damn, that nigga stank," is what they complained
Tried to light the blunt, but it burst into flames
Caught the reflection in the window of what he became
A long look, wasn't shook, wasn't ashamed
Matter of fact, only thing on his brain was brains
Yeah, and gettin' back in his lane, doin' his thing
First he had to find something to sling
Next stop was his block, it had the same cops
Walk right past the same spot where he was shot, shocked
That some lil' niggas tried to sell him rocks
It just felt weird, bein' on the opposite
They figured that he wasn't from there so 
they pulled out
And robbed him, with the same gun they shot him with
Put it to his head and said, "You're scared, ain't ya?"
He said, "Hustler for death, no heaven for a gangsta" and
[Hook]


[Produced By: Kanye West]
[Verse 1: Common]
Memories on the corners with the fo's
 
and the mo's
Walk to the store for the rose, talking straightforward to hoes
Got uncles that smoke, and some put blow up they nose
To cope with the lows, the wind is cold and it blows
In their socks and their soles, niggas holding they rolls
Corners leave souls opened and closed, hoping for mo'
With nowhere to go, niggas rolling in droves
They shoot the wrong way, cause they ain’t knowin' their goals
The streets ain’t safe cause they ain’t knowing the code
By the foes I was told, either focus or fold
Got cousins with flows, hope they open some doors
So we can cop clothes and roll in a Rolls
Now I roll in a Olds, with windows that don’t roll
Down the roads where cars get broken and stole
These are the stories told by Stony and Cottage Grove
The world is cold, the block is hot as a stove
On the corners
[Hook: Kanye West]
I wish I could give you this feeling
I wish I could give this feeling
On the corners niggas rob or kill
And dying just to make a living, huh?
[Spoken Word: The Last Poets]
We overstated, we underrated, we educated
The corner was our time when time stood still and
Gators and snakeskins in
Yellow and pink and collared blue
Profiles glorifying them
[Verse 2: Common]
Street lights and deep nights, cats trying to eat right
Riding no-seat-bikes, with work to feed hypes
So they can get sweet Nike's, they head and they feet right
Desires of street life, cars and weed types
It’s hard to breathe nights, days are thief-like
The beasts roam the streets, the police is Greek-like
Game at its peak, we speak and believe hype
Bang in the streets hats cocked left or deep right
It’s steep life, coming up where niggas is sheep-like
Rappers and hoopers, we strive to be like
G's with three stripes
, 
seeds that need light
Cheese and recite, needs and BE strife
The corner, where struggle and greed fight
We write songs about wrong ‘cause it’s hard to see right
Look to the sky, hoping it will bleed light
Reality's a bitch, and I heard that she bites
The corner
[Hook]
[Spoken Word: The Last Poets]
The corner was our magic, our music, our politics
Fires raised as tribal dances and war cries
Broke out on different corners
Power to the people
Black power
Black is beautiful
[Verse 3: Common]
Black church services, murderers, Arabs serving burgers
As cats with gold permanents, move they bags as herbalists
The dirt isn’t just fertile, it’s people working and earning this
The curb getters go where the cash flow and the current is
It’s so hot that niggas burn to live
The furnace is, where the money moving, the determined live
We talk shit, play lotto,
 and buy 
German beers
It’s so black packed with action that's affirmative
The corners
[Hook]
[Spoken Word: The Last Poets]
The corner was our 
Rock of Gibraltar
, 
our Stonehenge
Our Taj Mahal, our monument
Our testimonial to freedom, to peace, and to love
Down on the corner


[Produced By: Kanye West]
[Verse 1: Common]
I open my eyes, the corner's like African tribes
The blackest of thighs, a blackened surprise where passion arise
The youth fantasize of grass and cash in they eyes
A youth dies, and momma's asking rationalize
Trying to build a spot where ghetto bastards can rise
The ghetto's been bastardized by those that capitalize
Wonder if it's a plan that the master devised
To bring his people to a land where blacks are despised
To act you lie scriptures, the rich are getting richer
The young are becoming thicker, summers becoming winter
Hard times, hard liquor link cards and God figures
It's moments that completes us to piece us with scar niggas
The corners I picture in motion it stars niggas
Emotions of those that be smoking like Todd Bridges
These are our bridges, from nothing to something
That's why on every city block, you hear them pumping
The corner
[Hook: Kanye West]
I wish I could give you this feeling
I wish I could give this feeling
On the corners niggas rob or kill
And dying just to make a living, huh?
[Spoken Word: The Last Poets]
We overstated, we underrated, we educated
The corner was our time when time stood still and
Gators and snakeskins in
Yellow and pink and collared blue
Profiles glorifying them
[Verse 2: Scarface]
On the corner, birth place of various dreams
The ending of the beginning, the scariest thing
As we survive here to die here, whatever we seen
We accept it, live with it, or better the scheme
On the corner, the backdrop for hustling crack rock
The spot where the [?] stops to issue the pack [?]
There's money on the corner you'd be stupid to pass up
Remember there's a code and if it's broken we blast ya
There's Crips on the corner, Bloods on the corner
GDs and vice lords so there's thugs on the corner
There's children having fun so there's love on the corner
OGs with triple beams holding drugs on the corner
There's cops on the corner, dope fiends that walk around in they socks is on the corner
But I love 'em, so I'm on 'em
It's life on the corner, death on the corner
We fight until our very last breath on the corner
Corner
[Hook]
[Spoken Word: The Last Poets]
The corner was our magic, our music, our politics
Fires raised as tribal dances and war cries
Broke out on different corners
Power to the people
Black power
Black is beautiful
[Verse 3: Yasiin Bey]
(The corner man!)
C-O-R-N-E-R
My nigga, it's the corner, every city block [?]
It's simple math, something jumping off on all them
The church, the chicken shack, the liquor store, the dope house
The [?], the nail salon, the barber shop, the courthouse
The young are blowing their smoke out, he high five
They're 'bout it 'bout it, no power out it for live wires
The block wild and shots fired from hot eyes
A cold world full of hot summers and loud sirens
The 'caine slangers and gang bangers and lane changers
Elders anxiety prone, [?] teenagers
They're whispering, "Man, you can't change in the streets [?]"
They on the block like they ain't neighbors, they're straight strangers
Grandmama hit me with 3 words: "Son, keep praying"
This shorty hit me with 3 more, "Son, keep blazing"
They're both deep statements, from two unique places
Real forever real, I just love to hear the streets saying
Corner
[Hook]
[Spoken Word: The Last Poets]
The corner was our Rock of Gibraltar, our Stonehenge
Our Taj Mahal, our monument
Our testimonial to freedom, to peace, and to love
Down on the corner



), published by BMG Mexico (SGAE), performed by 
Camilo Sesto
, under license from BMG Latin America. All right reserved. Used by permission


[Kanye West]
Uh, Felli Fel, Ne-Yo, Yeezy, Calm Down, Easy, Easy
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
Keep tellin' me you got a man
But he can't do what I can
Let me, show You what you been missin'
Keep showin' you the minor thing
Let me, show you the finer thing
Let me, show you what you been missin'
[Kanye West]
Right about this time raise your glasses
What's my motivation, that ass is
Start a conversation, like as if
You really want to know about a day in that shit
Go ahead and tell the DJ to play Swizz
So I ain't gotta tell these hoes who I is
Bitches hatin' again that's music to my ears
What's you think my fuel was for all Of these years?
I'm inspired when people don't like me
It keep me writing so exciting
Man, the drama is so enticing
I might just bite a motherfucker like Tyson
And just too fly a motherfucker show your chain
Throw your cash, that's cake and icing
I asked her 'you buying?'
She said 'no just sight seeing''
Maybe that's just because you ain't found the right thing? yeah!
[Hook]
[JD]
Let me show you what is like to be the wife
Of a nigga with a life
That make your head spin around
See it's funny coz I know what you like
But I be see'in you with niggas that ain't right, round hard top
Know'in that you really, really want's your top down
Know'in really that it's time to stop a run around
We don't live twice, only life once
And I know you like nice
So how you gone front on me?
Baby, I'm the boss JD
With him its a limit
With me its a spree
He buy cars
I write you poetry
He send flowers
I send Mercedez
Like ye, say, heaven is everything that heaven it is
And yes, I guess, I'm into trickin' of bizz
But shit, If you had it like I got it
Then you got it as a kid
You say the same thing to a girl
That I just said
[Hook]
[Ne-Yo]
The life I live, fit for a King
Now all I need fine little dime that's sharin my shine
We sit back, watch the haters go by
[Fabolous]
I'm not tryna' keep it lost too a minimum
If you associating been in em' or winnin' em'
Then I say I was nine out of ten of them
Frankly I no been and them I like spendin' them
You like the smooth I can white lend'in them
You wan't a thug, hey I look good in a timb
You might win some, but everybody lost one
I put a check on that like Airforce One's
It's easier to lose her than to find her
So wine her and dine her, and treat her to the finer
Things, lines, from the top designers
Bling, shine, like you tryin'a blind her
These are just reminders
Just too sign 'Her'
Show her you find 'Her'
Eight, one of a kind 'Her'
Seen a lot of ass, but that one behind her
Let's just say that I'm diggin' that like a miner, ya digg?
[Hook - 2x]
[Ne-Yo]
KanYe, Ne-Yo
JD, Low So
Felli Fel on the track
All the haters take two steps back
And we gone


Intro [DJ Boom]
DJ Boom, beats on streets and here with my man Kanye West
Producer of H to the Izzo, Takeover and all that.
 Let them know man
[Kanye West speaking]
Yo, it's Kanye to the man. Just play my shit man
Let a nigga hear somethin' finally. (Holla)
Yo, DJ Boom, back for the first time. It's really my first time yo
This is...Kanye to the. 
Not on the beat though
You know what I'm sayin'? ON the beat motherfuckers
What up G? What up Hop? Look, c'mon
[Verse 1]
As a shorty had a Schwinn, look that's the best bikes
Shorty had three friends, that's my best dykes
Said her best friend wanna see what Kanye West like
Cause her man dress like a transvestite
You ain't know I get a deal because I rhyme tight
Sport Rocs before your deal to be an Unsigned Hype
Give a fuck about your rippin' down some open mics
I'm gonna go ahead and give you these beats for free, psych
You rappers too lame, you ain't James, y'all ain't worthy
I fly out to Newark just to get some new jerseys
I be back to Chi about every two Thursdays
I can't buy water around niggas too thirsty
I can't rock ice around niggas too hatin'
Can't rock Motorola, niggas two wayin'
I Alter like Beast in an altercation
Infrared make you juke like Walter Payton
So, grand theft auto
Come up out your auto
Mobile, before I pull more steel than Soprano
Still trying to make more meals than McDonald's
So cut my slice like Giordano's
And they did
I made 500 Gs in this
First beat on what The Truth and The Reason is
She told me if you read music you a genius
I don't play but I'll introduce you to my pianist
Now, tell me that's that regular producer rap
You can listen to the flow and tell I used to rap
You look in my eyes
Think I won't use the gat?
Until
Paramedics gotta use the bag
Cause
In my eyes, you'se the fag
You're like a hermaphrodite dyke dressed in drag
So let's see how many slugs that vest can have
And you ain't really the worst, you just next to last
Uh, Kanye to the...motherfuckin' West
Outro [Kanye West speaking]
Yo, DJ Boom, good lookin' out man
Cause ah, niggas is really doubtin'
Niggas lookin' at a lot of motherfuckers they see on TV
And just figure-they be like, "Oh, you rap?"
Naw, motherfucker, I just did beats nigga
To have some shit to rap on nigga
Ha ha, I'm tryin' to understand, why the fuck if a nigga got hot beats
He can't have hot rhymes? Why is that nigga?
Why niggas just can't do a lot of shit good?
What a nigga can chew gum and tie his shoes at the same time?
Fuckin' A&Rs


[Intro: Common]
Yeah! It's been a long time comin'
You know what they say Kanye
Slow motion better than no motion
[Hook: Kanye West]
I walked in the crib, got two kids
And my baby mama late (uh oh! uh oh! uh oh!)
So I had to did, what I had to did
Cause I had to get (duh-ough! duh-ough! duh-ough!)
I'm up all night, getting my money right
Until the blue and whites (po po! po po! po po!)
Now the money comin' slow, but a least a nigga know
Slow motion better than (no-oh! no-oh! no-oh!)
[Verse 1: Common]
You love to hear the story, again and again
About these young brothers,
 
from the City of Wind
Like juice and gin, in the city we blend
Amongst the hustle, titties and skin, fifties and rims
Y'all know the Sprewells and trucks that's detailed
Heartless females that wanna ride in 'em
Felt the Southside venom in raw hides and denim
Pimp minds collide with 'em,
 
a system that tries victims
We livin' in, my man in the fast lane pivotin'
On the block white is selling like Eminem
On the block it jump off like Kim and 'em
On the block it's hot, you can feel it, in your skin and then
Shorties get the game but no instructions to assemblin'
Eyes bright, it seems like the fight is dim in them
Call my man cuzo, like I'm kin to him
He tryin' to stay straight, the streets is bendin' him
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
It's all good in the hood, like raps and gems
Throwbacks and Timbs, blacks and rims
Whether on ball courts, attires of all sorts
We never fall short, with us it's all Force like Air 1's
Some waves, some air guns, the days of the fair one is over for
Cats is colder than four below
, 
with self I go toe to toe
Wondering if it's for the art or for the dough
Though I know to grow a nigga gotta learn to let go
Though I know the dough I got to bring back to the ghetto
Arrows on 
tarot cards
 pointin' to the grind
Po' livin' in more prisons, pointin' to my mind, shine the light up
Clench my fists tight, holdin' the right up
Freedom fight in dark gear for the years to get brighter
Situations, and jaws get tighter
My man trying to get his weight and height up, c'mon!
[Hook]
[Bridge: Kanye West]
I, I know I could make it right
If I could just swallow my pride
But I can't run away or put my gun away
You can't front on me
I, no I can't let it ride
No, no, not tonight
See I can't run away or put my gun away
You can't front on me
[Verse 3]
I break bread with thieves and pastors, OG's and masters
Emcees and actors that seize and capture
Moments like the camcorder
You ain't killin' it, yo that's manslaughter
Though paper can't change a man's aura
It can feed a man's daughter
I stand for the blue collar, on the side makin' a few dollars
Like Sam Jack they maneuver through drama
 like
[Bridge]


I still remember when 
Damon Dash
 asked me to put 
Kanye on Def Poetry Jam
. I didn’t really know Kanye as a poet, I just knew him as 
a producer who was part of the Roc-A-Fella
 (which was 
a Def Jam company
) crew, making hit records for Jay and ‘em. His appearance on our HBO show blew a lot of people away that night, including me…and from that point on, 
Kanye soared.
I recently sat down with Ye in New York and got the chance to hear about his hopes and ambitions, his frustrations and contradictions, his happiness and his anger. But through it all, what I felt from Kanye was an artist who desperately wants to leave his imprint in the history books. What’s often times misunderstood about Kanye is that people believe he wants all of this for himself, in fact, quite the opposite, he wants all of this for the rest of us. 
He wants to destroy the glass ceiling with 808′s and crack music…so one day WE have the power to see all of the lights.
 Certainly he wants a piece for himself…everybody would, but at his core, at the bottom of his heart, lies an inner-truth that has led to an external battle to make this world a bit easier for those who have been dealt a hand of struggle, by showing them a glimmer of hope through his art.
It is his generation that has this power. He knows it. He feels it. He tastes it. And he so badly wants it like mad. So, you may think he’s mad when he goes on his “Yeezy rants,” but it is a different kind of mad. It is a mad that keeps you up at night, knowing that if you fall asleep, you are wasting time. It is a mad that makes you go into the lab and work seven days with no sleep, cause you want to perfect your craft. 
It is a mad that sees the world still unfair for women and people of color, that makes you want to break down every door that they say is locked and can never be open.
 It is a mad-scientist kind of mad. 
One who wants to uplift his people to the top of the mountain,
 so in unison, they can chant from the top of their lungs, 
“No One Man Should All That Power!”
 He is fighting for his generation, his people, his country, his planet earth….
like a motherfuckin’ monster!
We will no longer be lost in the world and we will survive in this America.
 I believe these truths to be self-evident. That is what Kanye West told me on a cold morning in New York City just seven days ago. It is his genius, his tenacity, his creativity, his relentlessness and his madness, that will allow us all to one day have the ability to 
touch the sky.
-Russell Simmons


[Produced by Gee Roberson, Kanye West & Plain Pat]
[Sample: Laura Nyro]
(In my soul
Gonna take you to the glory
Goal, In my mind I can't study war)
('o mind, I can't study war)
[Hook]
Gonna take you to the glory
Oh I can't study war
Now where the South Side
Now where the West Side
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Can I talk my shit again?
Even if I don't hit again?
Dog, are you fucking kidding?
My hat, my shoes, my coat
Louis Vuitton stitch, with Donatella Versace
That's Louis Vuitton bitch
I think Hennessy, I drank, I'm gone
Off that Bacardi Limon and Corona. I'm zoning
Class back in session so I upped it a grade
Two years Dwayne Wayne became Dwyane Wade
And, Hey
Please don't start me
I'm like Gnarls Barkley meets Charles Barkley
I'm pop the Barkers, I'm hood the Parkers
While y'all was in limbo I raised the bar up
I touched on everything
Married to the game, roc-a-chain instead of a wedding ring
Y'all bridesmaids catch the garter
On nights when 'Ye romance
Cameras flash so much
That I gotta do that Yayo dance
I'm on a world tour with Common, my man
After each and every show a couple dykes in the van
It's easy
The hood love to listen to Jeezy and Weezy
And, oh yeah, Yeezy
I did it for the glory
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
What am I supposed to do now?
Man the game all messed up
How I'm suppose to stand out when everybody get dressed up?
So yeah, at the Grammys I went ultra Travolta
Yeah that tuxedo might have been a little guido
But with my ego
I can stand there in a speedo
And be looked at like a fucking hero
The glory, the story, the chain, the polo, the night
The grind, the empty bottles of No-Doz
Tank on empty, whipping my mamma's Volvo
I spent that gas money on clothes with logos
The fur is Hermes, shit that you don't floss
The Goyard so hard man, I'm Hugo's boss
Why I gotta ask what that Tudor cost
House on the hill
Two doors from Tracey Ross
And I'm asking about her girlfriends
Yeah, the dark skin'ed ones
She asking about the speed boats yeah I admit we rented 'em
When you meet me in person what do you feel like?
I know, I know I look better in real life
I hear people compare themselves to big a lot
You know B.I.G. and Pac, you know to get it hot
I guess after I live I wanna be compared to B.I.G
Any one: Big Pun, Big L or Notorious
'Till then, get money and stunt and stay glorious
And I'm gonna stop killing these niggas soon as the chorus hit
[Hook]
[Outro]
Yeah I'mma stop killing these niggas soon as the chorus hit
These haters be killing themselves they wanna come and get the glory


[Sampled Intro]
Alright, is everybody ready? (YEAHHH!)
Alright now here we go!
[Consequence]
Aiyyo good morning America, good morning to Erika
Who gave me good head while watching
 
Good Morning America
Good day New York
, have a good day in court
My niggas drive around the hood lookin for good yay to snort
I never liked the goodbyes, always caught a good vibe
Always had a good time, could always spot a good guy
From a good guy with good lies lookin' liable to try
You know that old sayin, what they say about good guys
I guess that's why I went bad, needed all my chicks bad
Fiends needed hits bad, so they hittin licks bad
Had to get that work off, before that shit went bad
If not it gets bad, and things'll only get bad
So now I'm gettin bad scans,
 and I got that bad jam
Tellin me them bad sense, songs catch them bad breaks
Caught a bad rate on the whip, with bad brakes
I'm caught up in these bad ways havin a bad day
So now the game's ugly and my pain's ugly and my chain's ugly
Things became ugly cause my ugly rugby
Got a stain and it's musty, wakin up lookin crusty
And Ms. Thang who's ugly is sayin to me don't touch me
I went from Pretty Willie to pretty silly without the pretty gully
So you know things'll still get pretty ugly
And this is for the hoods, the crabs, the junkies
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
[Hook: Kanye West]
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
B.I.G. said get your money
 ain't no tellin they gon' love me
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
When your money get funny and them days ain't sunny
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
Niggas give pounds and hug me, know they really wanna slug me
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
And this is for the hood, you got, to love me
[Kanye West]
Good morning to umm, I don't remember your name
But I remember the brain, here go a fare for the train and
Good morning to Chi-Town, where my niggas ride down
To bust clowns and look for some bust downs to bust down
Yeah, she ain't got a car she on the bus now
But her gear is bangin, she one of us now
I wanted badly to bone, cause she was bad to the bone
She from a battered home, she mad when she at home
So I gave her my number to peep off, she wanted to take a week off
Bustin Scary Movie nuts, I had to get the freak off
That new Tom Cruise to the Moulin Rouge
On a too long cruise,
 
she said I ain't bonin you
With them too long shoes, and
 
acted bougie in a Grey Poupon mood
So I'mma act cheap in a coupon mood
She said 'Ye, you don't love me?
I told her it was good, it's too bad it got ugly
[Hook: Kanye West]
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
B.I.G. said get your money ain't no tellin they gon' love me
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
And this is for the hood, you got, to love me
[Consequence]
Aiyyo good morning to Queens, the Northside is my scene
And when it comes down to it I'mma ride for my team
See it's a beautiful life, but these bills'll make it ugly
And the beauty of life, is when you're forced to make it ugly
Had a beautiful night, 'til a storm done made it ugly
And a beautiful wife, now we divorcin and it's ugly
Now my mindstate is ugly, when blind dates are ugly
And I'm ready turn it up in these streets, and make it ugly
Used to sit in Mr. Ugly's with these sisters that was ugly
And these bitches used to bum me to the point it made me ugly
And say things that was ugly then leave the bar, abruptly
But I took it all back, cause God don't like ugly
Now I'm curbin my bad words and say that's a bad burn
I left it on bad terms with a chick with a bad perm
Who case took a bad turn, her face caught a bad burn
And took the news bad when they said she had bad germs
The bad thing about the bitch is bad and 'bout it
But the pussy smelled bad so I had to get up out it
So now we got bad luck, our son is a bad blood
But it happens in the hood when you inherit that bad luck
And once you get bad, it be bad for good
And that's bad meanin bad not bad meanin good
But I agree that it's good, when you leave with the goods
It's all good in the hood I call good cause it's good
Now I'm havin some good nights, livin this good life
Got me a good girl that I'mma make me a good wife
So I'm, good to go, and I'm good where I go
Cause my man got good aim and that's a good thing to know
And he came off for good, offa good behavior
Spittin that good game so what's good with this paper
Cause this is for the hoods, the crabs, the junkies
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
[Hook: Kanye West]
Aiyyo we showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
B.I.G. said get your money ain't no tellin they gon' love me
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
When your money get funny and them days ain't sunny
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
Niggas give pounds and hug me, know they really wanna slug me
We showin you the good, the bad, the ugly
And this is for the hood, you got, to love me


[Produced by Pete Rock]
[Hook: Curtis Mayfield]
Add a little sugar, honeysuckle and
A great big expression of happiness
Boy, you couldn't miss with a dozen roses
Such would astound you
The joy of children laughing around you
These are all the makings of you
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I do it for the forefathers, yeah, the street authors
That are now A&Rs in the cheap office
Rappers that never got signed but they keep offers
Girls that's way too fine for us to keep off us
Gave her a handshake only for my man’s sake
She in her birthday suit cause of the damn cake
Now there’s crumbs all over the damn place
And she want me to cum all over her damn face
I never understood planned parenthood
Cause I never met nobody planned to be a parent in the hood
Taking refills of that Plan B pill
Another shorty that won’t make it to the family will
If I don’t make it, can’t take it, hope the family will
They ain't crazy, they don’t know how insanity feel
Don C just had a shorty, so it’s not that bad
But I still hear the ghosts of the kids I never had
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
No electro, no metro, a little retro, ahh, perfecto
You know the demo, your boy act wild
You ain't get the memo? Yeezy’s back in style
Now one room got Gidget,
 
the other got Bridget
What’s more tripped out, dawg, is they sisters
Nah, you ain't listen, they black, they "sistas"
They momma named them after white bitches
So next time you see me on your fallopian
Though the jewelry’s Egyptian, know the hunger’s Ethiopian
Stupid questions like “Is he gon' be dope again?
Have you seen him? has anybody spoke to him?”
This beat deserves Hennessey, a bad bitch
And a bag of weed; the Holy Trinity
In the mirror where I see my only enemy
Your life’s cursed, well mine’s an obscenity
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
This is my momma shit; I used to hear this
Through the walls in the hood when I was back in my pajama shit
Afros and marijuana sticks, seeds in the ganja had it
Popping like the sample that I’m rhyming with
Pete Rock, let the needle drop
I seen so much as a kid they surprised I don’t needle pop
Taking sips of pop's six pack of Miller nips
Pink Champale
, 
Ballantine Ale
Bally’s on my feet help me balance out well
That and the shit I used to balance on the scale
I got it honest from the parties 
from
 my momma’s
Virgin Marys try to judge her
I’m like “Where the Madonnas now?”
Give all glory to Gloria
They said “you raised that boy too fast"
But you was raising a warrior
We victorious, they’ll never take the joy from us, uh
[Outro: Kid Cudi (w/ Pete Rock)]
Keep your hands up, get mine up
Don’t let them take your fire
Yeah, okay
(It’s Pete Rock, Kanye, one, two, okay)


[
Produced by !llmind
, co-produced by Kanye West, Travi$ Scott, and Jeff Bhasker]
[Intro: D'Banj]
Stuttering
Giving 'em rest and making love again
In my best, I be the run again
And I have the man dem stuttering
[Hook: D'banj]
I'm getting this nigga in the morning
He gon' think he been chiefing, just too long when
He see me in the evening, wanna catch all these feeling
Well, let me be the first to get mine
[Verse 1: Raekwon]
Barbeque and blow in the back of the crib
Sitting and counting, smoking a spliff, this shit's a gift
All my niggas watches is rough,
 
grabbing our crotches
Yelling what up?
 
The jeans cost $500? Fuck
Stop it, keep baking,
 
see, the smell it's a statement
One freeze of this shit, you won't feel your legs kid
I'm a gangsta corporate hustla, my voice is illustrious
Hounded by vicious dons, nigga we armed, trust me bruh
They yelling Chef, kill the plate with the cooks
I say 'Ye with 2 Chainz on, we Common, let's Push
Burn another bush, then burn another we brothers
Love us or not, the Mark Zuckerbergs of the block
Hug a knot, staying rich, we was built for the guap
Park the green six deuce on the deuce just props
Rock a kilt,
 
mean Glock, I'm all machinery,
 
ock
Cling to me, now see how the scenery rock?
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Common]
I was born by a lake, chicken shack, and a church
That mean the flow got wings and it come from the dirt
Godly, I know she wanna test the 'Rari
Eye on a dollar like Illuminati
Life is foggy, tryna see through the mist of it
Could have been living it, you was Mrs. Mischievous
This is just a letter to better your development
Situation delicate
[Verse 3: Pusha T]
Some claim God body, blame Illuminati
All cause his pockets now knotty as his hair, yeah
All Sonny no Cher, only solitaires
You clusterfucks could cluster up
On tippy-toe and still not muster up
So it's ashes to ashes, dust to dust
In God we trust, the game is all us
'til the sky calls or it's flames on us,
 
Push
[Hook]
[Verse 4: 2 Chainz]
2 Chainz!
I'm chilling in my camo, flipping through the channel
On my GOOD Music shit,
 
my logo's a Lambo
Four doors of ammo,
 
ammunition I'm pitching
To make your body switch another position
[Verse 5: CyHi Da Prince]
I hope the people is listening, I could never sell my soul
I gave it back to God at my christening
It's tickeling when I hear what haters be whispering
What makes you think an Illuminati would ever let some niggas in?
Fake friends and siblings, like to wish you well
But ain't never flip the nickel in
Haters wanna pull they pistol when they see me in this race car
But you can't spell war without an A-R
15, I was pushing carts at K-Mart
By 21, they said I'd be inside a graveyard
Can't wait to get that black American Express
So I can show them white folks how to really pull the race card
[Break: Kid Cudi and Kanye West]
Yeah, you feeling on top now, getting that money nigga?
(You sold your soul)
Yeah, you feeling on top now, getting that money nigga?
(Naw man, mad people was fronting
Aw man, made something from nothing)
[Outro: Kanye West]
I treat the label like money from my shows
GOOD woulda been God except I added more O's
If I knew she was cheating and still bought her more clothes
It's cause I was too busy with my Baltimore, you know
Some people call that the art of war, you know
I guess it depends what you falling for,
 
the clothes?
Cars, money, girls and the clothes
Aw money, you sold your soul
Nah man, mad people was fronting
Goddamn, we made something from nothing


[Intro]
You just popped in the Kanye West
 workout tape
And ladies if you follow these instructions exactly
You might be able to pull you a rapper, a NBA player
Man, at least a dude with a car
So first of all we gonna work on the stomach
Nobody wants a little tight ass
[Verse 1]
1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and get them sit ups right and
Tuck your tummy tight and do your crunches like this
Give head, stop breathe, get up, check your weave
Don't drop the blunt and disrespect the weed
Pick up your son and don't disrespect your seed
It's a party tonight and ooh she's so excited
Tell me who's invited: you, your friends and my dick
What's scary to me is
Henny makes girls look like Halle Berry to me
So excuse me miss, I forgot your name
Thank you, God bless you, good night I came
[Hook]
It's been a week without me
And she feel weak without me
She wanna talk it out but
Ain't nothing to talk about
Unless she's talking about freaking out
Then maybe we can work it out
[Verse 2]
Oh girl your silhouette make me wanna light a cigarette
My name Kanye from the Jigga set
Twista said "Get It Wet"
Ooh girl your breath is harsh!
Cover your mouth up like you got SARS
Off them tracks yea I bought them cars
Still kill a nigga
 
on 16 bars
We ain't sweating to the oldies
We juking to a cold beat
Maybe one day girl we can bone
So you can brag to all your homies now
But I still mess with a big girl
If you ain't fit girl, I'll still hit girl
1 and you brought 2 friends
OK, 3 more now hop in the Benz
4-door -
 
do you know the difference between a 5, 6, 7, 8
All the mocha lattes you gotta do Pilates
You gotta pop this tape in before 
you start back dating
Hustlers, gangstas, all us ballas
[Interlude]
[Jill]
Hi, my name is Jill, I just want to say thanks to
Kanye's workout plan. I was able to pull a NBA player
And like now I shop every day on Rodeo Drive
I just want to say, thank you Kanye! Woooo! Woooo! Woooo!
[Lasandra]
My name is Lasandra, and I just want to say
That ever since listening to Kanye's workout tape
I was able to get my phone bill paid,
 
I got sounds and 13's
Put up in my Cavalier
 
and I was able to get a free trip to Cancun
And what's most importantly is that I ain't gotta fuck with Ray-Ray's
Broke ass no mo'
[Ella-May]
My name is Ella-May from Mobile, Alabama
And I just want to say since listening to Kanye's workout tape
I been able to date outside the family
, I got a 
double wide
And I rode the plane
, rode the plane, rode the plane
[Girls]
Thanks to Kanye's workout plan
I'm the envy of all my friends
See I pulled me a baller man
And I ain't gotta work at the mall again
I wanna see you work out
It's like that old Michael Jackson shit
That's right put in work, move your ass, go berserk
Eat your salad, no dessert
Get that man you deserve
It's Kanye's workout plan


[Intro]
You just popped in the Kanye West
Get Right For The Summer workout tape
And ladies if you follow these instructions exactly
You might bear to pull you a rapper, a NBA player
Man, at least a dude wit' a car
So first of all we gon' work on the stomach
Nobody wants a little tight ass!
[Verse 1]
1 and 2 and 3 and 4 and get them sit ups right and
Tuck your tummy tight and do your crunches like this
Give head, stop breathe, get up, check your weave
Don't drop the blunt and disrespect the weed
Pick up your son and don't disrespect your seed
It's a party tonight and ooh she's so excited
Tell me who's invited: you, your friends and my dick
What's scary to me is Henny makes girls look like Halle Berry to me
So excuse me miss, I forgot your name
Thank you, God bless you, good night I came..
I came...
I came..
[Hook]
It's been a week without me
And she feel weak without me
She wanna talk it out but
Ain't nothin' to talk about
'Lest, she talkin' about freakin' out
Then maybe we can work it out
Work it out (Come on) 4x
Work it out now
Maybe we can work it out (Come on, come on)
[Verse 2]
Oh girl your silhouette make me wanna light a cigarette
My name Kanye from the Jigga set Twista set +Get It Wet+
Ooh girl your breath is HARSH
Cover your mouth up like you got SARS..
[Lil Jon]
STOP! IT'S THA MUTHAFUCKIN' REMIX!!
[Beat changes to Lil Jon's version]
[Farnsworth Bentley]
B-E-N-T-L-E-Y
Yee ain't know, you betta ask somebody
What we gonna do is twirk that body
All day at they fitness party
Lock them doors, don't tell nobody
Gentlemens in the Gentlemen's Club
And hitting them with an interesting dub
It's upside down that for the A-Town
What...y'all...sayin?
F.J. Bentley caught misbehaving
Yes I'm the captain and 
I'm saving, all my money
Yes I'm just gonna...stand...and watch you dance from over here
Matter fact pass the Couvorsier
But I will walk you to your car my dear
Cheers..
[Hook]
It's been a week without me
And she feel weak without me
She wanna talk it out but
Ain't nothin' to talk about
'Lest, she talkin' about freakin' out
Then maybe we can work it out
Work it out (Come on) 4x
Work it out now
Maybe we can work it out (Come on, come on)
[Interlude: Ladies speaking w/ Kanye in the background]
[Jill] Hi may name is Jill, I just want to say thanks to
Kanye's workout plan. I was able to pull a NBA player
And like now I shop every day on Rodeo drive
I just want to say, thank you Kanye! woooo! woooo! woooo!
[Lasandra] My name is Lasandra, and I just want to say
That ever since listenin' to Kanye's workout tape
I was able to get my phone bill paid, I got sounds and 13's
Put up in my Cavalier and I was able to get a free trip to Cancun
And what's most importantly is that I ain't gotta fuck Ray Ray's
Broke ass no mo'
(Work it mo' juke it mo' pump it mo, Chi-town mo' let's go mo')
[Ellie Mae] My name is Ellie Mae from Mobile, Alabama
And I just want to say since listenin' to Kanye's workout tape
I been able to date outside the family, I got a double wide
And I row the plain, row the plain, row the plain
[Girl] Thanks to Kanye's workout plan
I'm the envy of all my friends
See I pulled me a baller man (yeah)
And I don't gotta work at the mall again
*Beat changes*
(Lemme break ya wit' a piece of)
My favorite work out plan (oh! oh! oh!)
I wanna see you work out (yeah yeah yeah yeah, yeah yeah yeah yeah)
(It's that old Michael Jackson shit)
That's right put in work, move your ass, go wizzerk
Get your salad, no dessert
Get that man you deserve
It's Kanye's workout plan
I said it's Kanye's workout plan (Ladies and gentlemen)
It's Kanye's workout plan (Allow myself to introduce myself)
His woooorrrrkkoouut plan (This time around I want y'all to clap like this)
That's right put in work
Move your ass, go wizzerk
Eat your salad, no dessert
Get that man you deserve (Stop!)
It's Kanye's workout plan (Ok bring)
I said it's Kanye's workout plan (I know y'all ain't tired)
It's Kanye's workout plan (But I hope not, 'cuz on this one I need ya)
His woooorrrrkkoouut plan (to give me a soul clap ok? double time)
That's right put in work (Woo!)
Move your ass, go wizzerk (Ow!
Eat your salad, no dessert (Ugh!)
Get that man you deserve
That's right put in work (Put in work)
Move your ass, go wizzerk (Go wizzerk)
Eat your salad, no dessert (No dessert)
Get that man you deserve (You hear, ugh)
That's right put in work (That's right put in work)
Move your ass, go wizzerk (Go wizzerk)
Eat your salad, no dessert (Eat your salad, no dessert)
Get that man you deserve (Woo!)
(Okay, okay, okay, that's, that'd be good) *Applause and cheering*
(I appreciate your time)
I want to see you work out for me
Woah yeah


[Hook - Samples]
"
It's only right that I address this
..."
"Gotta be in it to win it..."
"
I never come lame type killin in the game
..."
"Now... get busy..."
"It's only right that I address this..."
"Gotta be in it to win it...."
"I never come lame type killin in the game..."
"Hot music..."
[Verse One]
Raised by game where niggas ain't phased by fame
Come to the crib, get banged, they take your chain
Stay in your lane
, 
Brokeback ain't the way of the game
My brainstorm is like I stay in the rain
My favorite was Kane, now I'm dope with weight in the game
You was hot but can't stay in the flame
Ghetto pain and windows crack
, 
the fist is like a symbol for black
Can tell the real by how the real interact
In the middle of whack my soul sticks to a track
Kickback records get kicked to the back
I want big cribs and my man Ronnie to get his
Child in a good school and know what her gift is
It's global warming, the world is shifting
Watching Sweet Sixteen, Bitchin-ass rich kids
Who don't know in life you gotta go the distance
Whether yoga or doja, we all get lifted in the Game
[Hook]
[Verse Two]
I never kissed the ass of the masses
, 
I'm the black molasses
Thick and I lasted past these rat bastards
They try to box me in like Cassius Clay
Hey I'm like Muhammad when he fasted
Opposing the fascist, 
make cuts and got gashes
Scratches over third eyelashes
Punchlines are like jab hits to rappers
Whose careers now ashes it's too many slashes
In his name, came in the game these gun-clappers
From weak lines to clothing lines to an actress
I seen em dashing smash hits
I yell run nigga run while I cook up classics
The weak hearted, become Babylon puppets
Making it hard for real hustlas
Touch the sky now and then, with a lady friend
Give thanks to the most that's how the day begins in the game
[Hook]
[Verse Three]
I just wanna be like Akeelah, an achiever
From the streets of the Chi where some get high for leisure
Selling weed out of cleaners
From rocks to barber shops and beemers
Chicks with blond weaves and strong legs like Serena
The demeanor of the Ghetto, to never stay settled
Aldermen and corrupt men play Pharaoh
GOOD bring business to the hood like heralds
Five year olds walking by themself in the street
The young die of cancer, I stop eating meat
Greet the gods on 87th street like peace
Even though it's war to G, got em facing the east
The game ain't tasting as sweet
Cats flow is still, and they complacent with beats
My radio station is deep, 
so eff em
Progression, counting paper and blessings in the game
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West, Hudson Mohawke, The Twilite Tone, Anthony Kilhoffer, Mannie Fresh & Lifted]
[Hook: Marsha Ambrosius]
The storm is on the horizon
I’m standing here alone
Got a pistol on my hip
And it's gon' be some shit
If you want it then bring it on
See I'm a motherfuckin' soldier
And I’mma be here 'til it’s done
And when they asking who I'm is, shit
You just tell them that I’m the one
(One, one, one)
Tell them that I’m the one
(One, one, one)
Tell them that I’m the one
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I'm the one, baby
Yeah, I'm the one, baby
Since God gave his only begotten son, baby
It's hard preachin' the gospel to the slums lately
So I had to put the church on the drums, baby
You on a run, baby
You on a run, baby
You think you free but you a slave to the funds, baby
You think you me, but you ain't me, what you done lately?
Mhm that's cool but I been runnin on the sun, baby
We on a galaxy the haters cannot visit
That's my reality so get off my Scott Disick
If you ever held a title belt you would know how Michael felt
Tyson, Jackson, Jordan - Michael Phelps
Yeahhh, had to take it to another realm
Cause everything around me got me underwhelmed
Best way to describe my position is at the helm
Best way to describe my new whip - Yeeeaaaalmmp
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Big Sean]
I told Detroit I'm-a fuckin' get it
I told my brother we'll be fuckin' winnin'
Ye told me I'm the man for the job
So I told my mom, call her's up and tell 'em that she quittin'
Started off in that Chevrolet, but it's Ferraris I gotta drive
I'm on HBO with my entourage,
 
I'm 5'9'' fuckin' 9 to 5
I need a hundred million no compromise
I'm a double X-L nigga: magazine and condom size
See what I seen and be traumatized
I don't wait, I marinate, variate erryday
Every state, sold out, fuck around and need a barricade
My weed loud, I need a hearing aid
Livin' life behind a pair of shades
I be a billionaire if I could get a dollar
For all the bullshit that I hear a day
I did it
[Hook]
[Verse 3: 2 Chainz]
Treat the back seat like a sofa bed
Break bread with my niggas, call it profit sharing
This some good shit, but it get better
And yeah my bitch cold, nigga thin sweater
Like my verse suede and the beat leather
Just tryin' to stay above sea level
When my nigga went to jail, I said, "Free Gucci"
I done bought so much shit, I should get free Gucci
Bought my baby momma anaconda bags
I shouldn't have bought it all
I should've went and cut the grass
Snake ass niggas in my fuckin' face
Bring your girl here nigga so I could fuck her face
Yeah I run this place, this is cashmere swag
Niggas treadmillin' goin' nowhere fast
Sittin' courtside at the Hawks game
Louis on, I could trip a fuckin' ball player
[Outro: James Fauntleroy]
Fuck yeah, awesome, yeah I lost some of my mind
And then I found peace it was really kind of awesome
It's possible, goddamn right
I've been honest the whole time


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Vocal Sample]
Louder, louder, louder, louder, louder, louder
Louder, louder, Yeah
[Repeat]
Yeah, it's for the people
[Bridge: Common]
This is street ra-dio, for unsung heroes
Ridin in they regal
, 
tryin to stay legal
My daughter found Nemo
, 
I found the new primo
Ye' you know how we do, we do it for the people
[Verse 1: Common]
And the struggles of the brothas
 
and the folks
With lovers under dope, experiment to discover hopes
Scuffle for notes, the rougher I wrote, times were harder
Went from rocky starter to a voice of a martyr
Why white folks focus on dogs and yoga
While people on the low end tryin to ball and get over
Lyrics are like liquor for the fallen soldiers
From the bounce to the ounce, it's all our culture
Everyday we hustlin, tryna get them custom rims
Law we ain't trustin them,
 
thick broads we lust in them
Sick and tired of punchin it, I look on the bus at them
When I see them struggling, I think how I'm touchin them
The People
[Hook: Dwele]
The days, have come
Now we, are one
Just take, your time
And then, you'll find
[Bridge]
[Verse 2: Common]
The people said that I was sharp on TV
At the Grammy's,
 though they tried to 
India.Arie me
Got back stage, and I bumped into 
Stevie
He said no matter what, the people gone see me
Can't leave rap alone the streets need me
Hunger in they eyes, is what seems to feed me
Inside peace mixed with beast seem to breed me
Nobody believe, until I believe me
Now I'm on the rise doin business with my guys
Visions realize, music affected lives
A gift from the skies, to be recognize
I'm keeping my eyes on the people, that's the prize
[Hook & Bridge]
[Verse 3: Common]
From Englewood to a single hood in Botswana
I see the I in We my nigga, yours is my drama
Standin in front of the judge with no honor
My raps ignite the people like Obama
The karma of the streets is needs and takes
Sometimes we find peace in beats and breaks
Put the bang in the back so the seats can shake
Rebel Cadillac music
 for the people sake
The People
[Hook]


[Intro: T-Pain]
Ahhhhhh! Take a sip of this
Ayyy, let's go {*beatboxing and skatting*}
I want you to feel this beat baby
I'm not tired, let's go! {*beatboxing and skatting*}
[T-Pain]
Listen (whassup?) 
This ain't the way I wanted it to end
But I gotta go - gotta get missing!
You ain't gotta kick me out, I'll get out my own house
But you still need to get yo' shit together girl
[Interlude]
What do I do, what do I say?
Gotta get us back to the way that we used to be back in the day
Who do I call to talk to?
Shorty you ain't gotta be scared of me, all we need is therapy
[Hook: T-Pain]
Like 1-2-3-4, get the hell up out my door
5-6-7-8, I don't need your sex I'll masturbate
9-10-11-12, you can go to hell all I care
Yeahhhh
Can't do it shorty, can't deal with you babe
Can't handle the pressure of you - yeah yeah
Can't do it shorty, can't deal with you babe
Can't handle the pressure of you - yeah yeah
[T-Pain]
Listen (whassup?) I know you ain't used to us being friends
But I gotta go - no more kissing!
You ain't gotta go away, but I know I can not stay
Cause you still gonna get yo' shit together girl
[Interlude] + [Hook]
[Kanye West]
Ohhhhh, ohhhh; ohhh you too much pressure doll
You gon' raise my cholesterol
I gotta lower the phone decibels
Just to talk,
 
just a thought
I'mma get a girl with a ass just as soft
You swear men dogs like reservoir and I was Mr. Pink
Remember those nights on the kitchen sink
I was choking you in a good way, good way
Now we in the streets and I'm chokin you in a hood way
When the cops come what I could say?
You know how all that gossip is
Next morning Bossip, Perez
Any girl I take out, Mediatakeout, I need a break now
Before I break now (ah ah ah ah)
Show me your Janet Jacksons if you nasty
You said you want to cut my nuts off like Jesse Jackson, classy
Ohhh, why she say that, OUCH~!
Bitch, give me back my couch
On that same couch casting
Now listen to T-Pain and sing
[Hook]
[T-Pain]
BETTER GET OUT MY FACE BITCH!


[Verse: Kanye West]
I got girls in my room like hostages
Giving me neck like ostriches
Give some play to the real Kanye
Cause we all know who the impostas is
All my gangsters mob to this
And all my strippers do your job to this
Hell no I can't give you my cell phone
But you know where the hotel lobby is
For ya'll the same girls wouldn't give me no ass
Now I done highly surpassed my whole upper-class
Bet if I meet her now I can fuck her fast, I pass
I be on some new shit
I wouldn't fuck none of the girls I went to school with
Fuck around I ain't be on no cool shit
Like you don't see the models that me and my crew get
You don't see the frivolous jewels I bought with 
She said "Whoa! Kanye don't get caught up in the hype
Ain't no telling they gon' love you after the night."
Well if tonight's the night pop bottles, fuck models
Spend money till you're broke my nigga live your life
Cause I'm living international nigga American dream
And all my dawgs living vicariously through me
So if I get head from Trin', that one for the team
Fuck 702, that one for the crew
My dawg Hip Hop really love Claudette
So if I ever get to smash, this fuck's for you
I can barely drive the G5 down King Drive
Just like the Brinks trucks, they know it's money inside


[Intro: Kanye West (Tim Westwood)]
Doesn't get much better than that (Nah!)
So unfair, so.. unfair advantage
(Yo, it doesn't feel much better than that)
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
It's the dream, it's Kobe and Jordan on the same team
In the best prime of their game and the same Kanye
You know the name and it's not pronounced Kane
And every time, you know I spit that flame
Ayo we gettin' out our dreams, gettin' out our dreams
And we gonna buy some things, 
and we got him out of Queens
Talkin' 'bout my man Consequence, once for the Tribe
Talkin' 'bout my man GLC and now he's around
Talkin' 'bout John Legend, take 'em all the way to Heaven
Speakin' of Heaven, Common speaks the heavenly words
The nouns and verbs and whatever you heard
Whatever synonym, we killin' 'em, everybody feelin' him
The people's choice, the people's champ like Paul Wall
All haters, I gotta say fuck all y'all
No, I won't waste my energy no more
I have to be more concerned about Sierra Leone
I'm talkin' 'bout people that's dyin' for diamonds
And the way that uh
They got uh, capa
What I want to say, monopoly over the country
And every time you say somethin' people act funky
The diamond industry want me, they say I'm bringin' out the bad
What I want, people to stop buyin' diamonds?
No, I want everybody to stop lyin'
They say conflicts is only one percent, and look at all the money rappers spent
We throw the diamonds in the screen, nah mean?
But it affects the families cause people is dyin' for these things
I mean in the diamond rivers they'll mine all day
And might only get paid two cups of rice a day
Is this the price to pay for the icy way?
We like to floss away, even your boy 'Ye
With my Jesus piece,
 
I gave diamonds to my niece
If I had a brother, Kanye, Common made "I Used to Love H.E.R."
Used to love her and I still do, lyrically I kill you
Dog I don't feel you, your style is like mildew
Real old, I'm real cold, listen to this beat, real soul
Your style is real old, dollar bill fold
Stackin' money ain't funny,
 
and I'm out in UK
And I ask 'em who's the best, and they say "you K"
Ooh way ooh way
Yeah I feel it and I gotta kick it off the top of the dome
Microphone controller, that's an M.C., it's in me
I can lead a crowd, I went to your show, it's empty
Go to my shit, it's sold out, every single seat
Every time I drop, because like Shaq, I bring the heat
And anybody that freestyle on the level that I do
Should be winnin' Grammys too
So if you do it like me, you can do it like this
And uh, they say I'm a teacher like the one called Kris
That's KRS but nah it's Kanye West
And every time I spit the rhymes, uh straight off the flesh
I could bring it down to the bone straight from the heart
And from the heart is where I did it 'fore I ever chart
And then I spit it, we get it, we did it, we do it a lot
Kanye spit it, we do it, we makin' it hot
I got patterns like Saturn, the rings, the rings
Uh, Gold Digger, that's the single, the single
Gotta hit the club just to mingle, to mingle
Why you all in my face? I'm tryna do my thing dude
Back off, I'll have Barry smack the fuck out of you
Everybody wanna know what they can get out you
Aww here's my demo, dawg, here's my group
Dawg, please back me up, you're heated up, you're soup
Y'all gassed, I passed, I flow, I rhyme
I'm uh, that's the way, that yah boy gotta shine
Straight from the Chi city, everybody ride with me
And you see the same questions and I gotta teach the lesson
This some, this some sick freestylin', I hear you're readin' it
I gotta keep goin' cause y'all fans, y'all needin' it
Uh, you say I'm too high like I smoke weed in it
And they say "he arrogant, he's always conceited, shit"
Well what you want from me? Y'all just can't stop me
You could look in my pants and tell that I'm cocky
[Bridge 1: Kanye West (Tim Westwood)]
(Laughing)
(Oh my God, Oh my God)
(Damn) Yeah
We back, we back like we ever left, huh
(Crazy!)
Like we ever left, huh, like we e', like we ever left, huh
Like we ever left, uh, uh, uh, yeah, yeah
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Can I get an encore, do you want more?
Kanye on the Westwood Tour
Chillin' with Westwood
Go to Chicago, that's Kanye West's hood
And the label called G.O.O.D
Should I holla at these bitches? You should
You might need one, you might need one
You might fuck one
If you eat out like McDonald's
I ain't no clown like Ronald
Uh, more like Donald
Trump, with the way I get it crunk
Like my man Lil Jon, but call him Lil Kan'
He all the same, 
flow like Lil Wayne on Tha Carter
And I'm signed to the Carter faculty
Cause the Roc is in back of me
Actually, that look like stacks to me
Ch-ching, ch-ching
Yah nahmean, yah nahmean, I'm doin' my thing
Out in U.K., London
And they call me number one
Japan, you're number one
That's Ichiban
And I learned that from KRS-One
Won once again like One
Like Puff, my friend, and One
One, give me one of them
Talkin' 'bout one drink, one hand
One cup of Henny, one cup of Hypno
If you ran out of it, yo, you got to get more
And I might sip slow but I never sip Mo
I sip Cris-o, Cris-y-Cris
And I gotta break it down like Missy Miss
She had the "hee hee, who got the keys?"
You don't need that if you got the no start V
Where you push the button, that ain't nothin'
All y'all talkin' somethin', y'all stay frontin'
Kanye dropped the beats to get 'em jumpin'
Lucifer, top of the morning to yah
Cheerio, hit up the flow, bring it back, oh
From Chicago, uh
And I'm rockin' the Dolce Gabbana
Fashionable persona
G.Q., who knew he'd be the flyest?
Like T.W.A.C.W.K
K.A.N.Y W.E.S.T
Be the B.E.S.T
[Bridge 2: Kanye West (Tim Westwood)]
You know, I'mma stop it right there
(Laughs) I just, I just feel like
I 'on't know if I feel like rappin' right now
(Oh my God!)
I got raps for yah, uh huh
I got raps for yah
I got, uh, I got raps for yah
We goin' to mass today, we have to pray
Besides what the pastor say
Uh, uh
I 'on't know, I 'on't know what
I got so many joints right know, runnin' through my head
I 'on't even know what to yeah
What should, what should I spit?
I could just freestyle off of these messages
Please can you tell
Okay this is a girl writin' this
Please can you tell my uh, boyfriend Danny
That I love him loads, with all my heart
And I can't wait to see him tomorrow
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
She can't wait to see you tomorrow Danny
She love you, mhmm
You know what that mean?
You gonna get some
I wonder if she gon' be wearin' one of those tight outfits
And you know that I like that shit
I ain't sayin' I ever met her but come on
You must be pimpin' and you ain't sweat her, you know?
She writin' you on one of these hip-hop shows
Made me wonder if she's a hip-hop ho
No disrespect, you know
I don't know you so
I will not disrespect, 
so don't please press eject
On the tape cassette, and don't knock it out of your decks
So with much respect, obliged, when I rhyme
Sometimes some things just pop out, sometimes
I must be a, I forgot the medical name
Not a narcoleptic that be sleepin'
How people was sleepin' when I made it deeper
And I gotta be creepin' cause you know they didn't peep it
Uh, they call me Rockafella's best little secret
Uh, I got the beats for the Jeep
When people used to rock Amigo's and Suzuki's
And the Isuzu's, this the way you flow
Do flow, 
aye yo you just like Menudo
Played out about mad years ago
And uh, I could rock off the top, I got years of flow
I got so many albums to go, at least about seven
Jesus Walks had me all the way
Thought I was gon' rhyme that, no you didn't time that
Yo that's where the line's at
Look at my shows, look how long that the line's at
All the way to the back, sold out, one night
That's the way it is when you done it right
Take time to drop a album, don't just be buyin' beats from everybody
Cause everybody ain't got it, I got it
I get it, I only give it to those who really live it
Like Jay-Z, the Game, and my dogs that really did it
Like Kweli, like Common, like dudes that really spit it
I'm talkin' 'bout they go onto the radio and hit it
And as far as makin' your songs, it's all wrong
You be doin' everything that everybody else is on
Man, I'mma break it down, let me take it down
Here goes the instructions on how to not say nothin'
Look, you take the crack concept
And you do that 'til it's all dead and gone, you do it all wrong[Intro] [Kanye Speaking]
Yo, it's Kanye To The
I did this beat in '96 and ah...
Is it the because my beats the nicest
Got me chargin' niggas Dr. Evil prices
Niggas will sell their soul to go platinum and gold
I'm cold cause I got the gold and kept my soul
Drop an album full of soul
Sold twelve times gold that's six plat
Man that's a sick plaque
Man don't forget that at the top is where you feel the loneliness
Like grabbin' fake titties, I swear I feel the phoniest
Cause I'm from a city where you never know who your homies is
Cause everybody wants your spot
No I.D. told me this
Oh I seen homies get
Shysty on me quick
Wooooh, just imagine if I only spit?
But I do beats too, that's the American dream
Stack two, make sure my shorties inherit some things
A couple real estate investments
Got niggas sayin', "There's the Kennedys"
But oh yes it's, the Wests
Brand new Roc-A-Fella most fresh to death is
Definitely Kanye, peace to Sportie L.A
That keep my shoe game
, early like the grave shift
Plus keep my closet cooped up like a slave ship
How you gon' look at me and say I ain't made shit?
Just look at my outfit, I got all the basics
Air Force, check
Rolex, check
Call Gee and Hop, did you get the, check?
Roc-a-Fella piece, check
Don't forget the neck
Is it the money on deck
That keeps on the honeys on the dick?
Now that ain't really rhyme
But I ain't really tryin'
Last 9/11 I was poor on the ave
Till I pluraled my math
Now it's Porsche 911 and I'm floorin' the gas
Got a lot of problems, money's one that I not have
Date ballplayer's wives, that divorce and got half
Shit, I figure they deserve somethin' for all them hours
And that be the realest shit I never wrote
Only book I ever read I could have wrote
48 Laws Of Power
Me, Gee and Hop, uh huh, the game's ours
Seems like I got more brain off my fake chain than my real one
Cause on the real son
If a girl think you broke, she just wanna fuckin' smoke
If you paid, then she's thinkin' bout her children
Feel him? probably not though, unless you got dough
You know what I mean?
You will think the grass greener when you finally get green
I told Gina, you ain't been in a Medina
Yeah, I seen you grabbin' on my balls like Serena
Yeah, y'all the invisible ho, you ain't never seen her
Um huh, she must stay around your grandma's crib
Right next door to where the in-laws live
I brought a man from the fifth floor
All in y'all crib
[Outro]
Remember niggas back at school, they didn't have no girl at school
So they be like, "I got a girl she just stay by my grandma's crib." Hehe
Yo, Dame, where the fuck you find me?
Hahaha


[Carl Thomas]
[...]
[Kanye West]
Ever since I been flossin'
My girls totally awesome
Girls wait to exhale
They don't breathe often
Claim that my game stone cold, Steve Austin
Claim that I boss 'em
[???] Diana Ross 'em
But who's to blame for all these fights
When you ain't always wrong
I'm just always right
And I just always like
To see exactly how your face look
Right when I walk down that hallway right
When I pack my bags
When I got that cab
You never thought Kanye would ever got that mad
You acting like I ain't the reason that you got that Jag
That you got that bag
Let's talk about amnesia
Yeah you got that bad
Kanye the best dressed nigga next to fags
And I'm the best version of Mase next to Fab
And I'mma call your best friend up just to stab
Cause of the way that you do
[Carl Thomas]
...
[Kanye West]
Shoutout to John Monopoly, Whoo Kid


[Hook: John Legend]
They say "What's happenin'?"
We say the facts and if, they lie
We comin' back for them
They might say... but they don't know!
(They say, They say...)
They don't knowwwww
[Verse 1: Common]
They say a nigga lost his mind
But in the scheme of things I never lost a rhyme
The thin line between love and hatred
I'm the black pill in the Matrix, the saturated life
They say life is what you make it
So I wait quick on a spaceship so I can take it
As high as the stakes get when paper get low
I be tellin Derick, "Tell Cara get us a show"
Little Com, I make righteous bitches get low
The richest man ain't necessarily the nigga with dough
They say "You ripped" "Wow..." Yea, that's what they say
My niggas couldn't tell it was me, like Jamie in Ray
Paintin a day, wit focused crime, broads, and good wine
They say "Dope is sour so it's homework and hood crimes"
I stood mine, for forever and a day so goodbye
They never could say - tell 'em, J
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Ahh... The sweet taste of victory
Go head and breathe it in like antihistamine
I know they sayin "Damn, Yay snapped wit this beat!"
Fuck you expect? I've got a history
Groupie love now, gotta be them wheels!
Haters back down, gotta be that steel!
I know they can't wait till ya outta ya deal!
Look how they did D'Angelo ask em how do it feel!
My best friends worry bout me
Cause they know when you famous/fame-ass
And you had made cash the media aims at us and you be up so high
If you ever fall off, it feel like a plane crash
But God don't ever give me nothin I can't handle
So please don't ever give me records I can't sample
So I could vacate where it ain't no channels
But it's quite ok for a gangsta to wear sandals
They say because of the fame and stardom
I'm somewhere in between the church and insane asylum
I guess it's messin with my health then
And this verse so crazy when I finish
I'm just gon check myself in
 - 
again
(Chorus) Kanye West: "Uh!" [hey!]
[Verse 3: Common]
They say "Dude think he righteous"
I write just to free minds
, from 
Stoney to Rikers
Amongst the lifeless, 
in a world crazy as Mike is
On my paper, whether its weed or Isis
They say "life is a game," so I play hard
Writin for my life cause I'm scared of a day job
They say "Sef kept the hood together"
I tell the young, "We can't play the hood forever
"
Play my cards right, they say I went to left
They showed me strange love, like I was Mr. F
Played chess in this game of, pawns and knights
Now I claim "King" like Don, or Frank White
They say my life is comparable to Christ's
The way I sacrificed, and resurrected, twice
They say "The crochet pants and the sweater was wack"
Seen "The Corner", now they say "That nigga's back," uh
[Hook]


[Travis]
Travie!
(Uh-oh)
Pete, thought I told you
What up, Hemmy
I see you!
I've had the world at arm's length from the get-go
This ain't an arms race, it's Apocalypto
The industry's a target, I suggest these labels get low
On top of that, this track is cracked like burnt brillo (damn)
Consider me the beast of Easter leavened
VIP, all day, AK47
If words is weapons, then get to steppin'
My arsenal's enough to send Hell's Angels to Heaven
I'm cool as the Fonz, and deadly as Charles Bronson
I'm Gonzo, you can call me Travie S. Thompson
Go 'head, and you can choose a similar path
But don't gas yourself up like Sylvia Plath, jeez
Watch Travie take the title with ease
You want a verse, please, I wouldn't bless you if you sneezed (achoo!)
Pardon me, I'm allergic to bullshit
Got a god complex with a full clip (pow!)
[Hook: Patrick]
This ain't a scene, it's god-damn arms race! (sing it out loud!)
This ain't a scene, it's god-damn arms race!
I'm not a shoulder to cry on, but I digress
I'm the leadin' man!
And the lies I weave are
Oh so intricate!
Oh so intricate!
I'm the leadin' man!
And the lies I weave are
Oh so intricate!
Oh so intricate!
[Kanye West]
Now I don't know what the hell this song is talkin' bout
Do you?
She said Yeah, I been spendin' all day tryin' to figure that out
You too?
The arms race made 'em raise they arm and race straight to the top
Who knew? (who knew?)
Right now they got that number one spot, do you want that?
 (want that?)
Me too
One thing I gotta call out, boy, take a look at Fall Out Boy
Since they ain't black, when they get money, they don't ball out, boy
They just buy tight jeans till their nuts hang all out, boy
They figure 'Ye dress tight so we gonna dress tighter
He dress white so we gone dress whiter
So in spite of
Anything you might've
Seen or heard
This scene occurred
Word
[Hook]
[Lupe Fiasco]
There's an arms race, like I'm runnin' on my hands
A dance marathon on my napalms
And
Drop mine's first so that they bombs can't
And Glocks, lasers, missiles, beat rocks, paper, scissors
I built mine's big, better build yours bigger
Built mine's quick so I could kill yours quicker
The number one supplier, the world's largest equipper
The second smallest dier, best non-coexister
I pledge allegiance to gasoline and bulletproof limousines
And leans on the property of the poor
And every night, I pray to the Lords Of War
Every man and mac eleven
That all good child rebel soldiers go to AK-47 heaven
And a landmine in every playground that they step in
And you took the footage from the camera on the tips of our bullets
And record like former Darfur [push it]
[Hook]
[Lil Wayne]
Yeah
It's Weezy, baby!
I am your arms dealer
I'm more like an armed dealer
Liter-
-rally
Really, I don't get this song neither
But 
I'mma figure it out like a palm reader
And
Since I be on TV
I turn it on to see me!
Hey, I'm so cool, even I wanna be me
That was totally off the subject
But for me, every song is like pussy so fuck it
Like Fresh
You dug it (you dug it, you dug it)


[Jay-Z]
To all my street niggas, project niggas
Real niggas, worldwide
Let's reflect, everybody got a story
We all ghetto B. Here's mine
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
See I was born in sewage,
 
born to make bomb music
Flow tight like I was born Jewish
Used the streets as a conduit
I kept arms 38 longs inside my mom's Buick
At any given moment Shawn could lose it, be on the news
Iron cuffs - arms through it, or stuffed with embalming fluid
Shit, I'm going through it - mom dukes too
Tears streaming down her pretty face, she got her palms to it
My life is gettin too wild
I need to bring some sort calm to it
Bout to lose it voices screaming "Don't do it!"
It's like '93, '94,
 
bout the year
That Big and Mack dropped and "Illmatic" rocked
Outta every rag drop
, 
and the West had it locked
Everybody doing them, 
I'm still stretching on the block
Like "Damn, I'mma be a failure"
Surrounded by thugs, drugs, and drug paraphenalia
Cops, courts, and their thoughts is to derail us
Three time felons in shorts with jealous thoughts
Trying to figure where your mail is
, 
guesstimate the weight you selling
So they can send shots straight to your melon;
 wait!
It gets worse, baby momma water burst
Baby came out stillborn, still I gotta move on
Though my heart still torn, life gone from her womb
Don't worry, if it was meant to be, it'll be soon
[Hook: Jay-Z]
This can't be life, this can't be love
This can't be right, there's gotta be more, this can't be us
This can't be life, this can't be love
This can't be right, there's gotta be more, this can't be us
[Verse 2: Beanie Sigel]
Chill dog
Second oldest born, from Michelle Brown my mother
Hell bound, grew with two sisters and one brother
Pop wasn't around, so many stories that's another
I'm thinking damn; how my older sister goin' make me tougher
When steel sharpens steel,
 I'mma keep it real
I'm tired of trying to hide my pain behind the 
syrups
 and 
pills
Dead to the world, stretched out like a corpse for real
Y'all niggas thinking what y'all reading in The Source is real
What my life like, you lookin at the source, it's real
What your life like? Mine dog, of course it's real
Passing judgment, you niggas second-guessing Beans
Cause you don't eat swine don't make you Mu'min
Dog you know a couple suras, out the Qur'an
I guess you all on your din and I ain't on mine
Stop that Akki, 'fore I send shots though your body
Make 'em feel hell on earth before Allah drop me
I feel the line's drawn here, nuttin more can stop me
Till them feds pick me up, or them boys pop me
There's only three things that make Mac not act like Beans
Amatullah Tisha, Po Aldin, Samir Amin
My seeds dog
, gotta teach 'em that before I leave dog
Shit I know that I'mma see 'em when I leave dog
I come back in the afterlife
Like fuck it I done touched hell twice; what's the meanin?
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Scarface]
Now as I walk into the studio, to do this with
 
Jig'
I got a phone call from one of my nigs
Said my homeboy Reek, he just lost one of his kids
And when I heard that I just broke into tears
And see in the second hand; you don't really know how this is
But when it hits that close to home you feel the pain at the crib
So I called mine, and saddened my wife with the bad news
Now we both depressed,
 
countin our blessings cause Brad's two
Prayin for young souls to laugh at life through the stars
Lovin your kids just like you was ours
And I'm hurtin for you dog; but ain't nobody pain is like yours
I just know that heaven'll open these doors
And ain't no bright side to losin life; but you can view it like this
God's got open hands homey, he in the midst.. of good company
Who loves all and hates not one
And one day you gon' be wit your son
I could've rapped about my hard times on this song
But heaven knows I woulda been wrong
I wouldn'ta been right, it wouldn'ta been love
It wouldn'ta been life, it wouldn'ta been us
This can't be life
[Hook]


[Intro: Kanye West and choir]
Now turn it up, turn it up, a little louder
Turn it up, turn it up, little louder
Now turn it up, can't live my, I, I can't live my
I can't live my, I, I can't live
Now turn it up, turn it up
[Verse 1: Evidence]
Yeah, yo I can't live my I, I can't live my
Life this way, continually get high
Instead of running 'round, lock one bird down
It's a new day, gotta do it big just to get right
Show no respect can't live that way
You hold my check, can't live that way
Without my chick on deck, can't live that way
They say what they like, but I've been that way
Our moves calculated through the lens, almost here
Success will be the best revenge
Man, from Clint East' to Kanye West
The sun can't chill but everyday it sets (Evidence!)
[Hook: Choir + (Female Choir)]
This time I made up my mind
This time I'm back on my grind
I know there's things in my life
That I'mma let go starting tonight
(I can't live my, I, I can't live my)
(I can't live my, I, I can't live my)
I can't live my, I, I can't live my
I can't live my life this way (can't live my, I, I can't live my)
This way (I can't live my, I, I can't live my)
This way, I can't live my, I, I can't live my
I can't live my life this way
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
My favorite girl wanna leave me just because I got a girlfriend
My freak girl told me now, she a Christian
My White girl wanna move back to Michigan
I'm pulling girls off the bench like a sixth man
I'm in the club doing the same ol' two step
While Omegas doing the same ol' "Q" step
I have my money on my mind, I was thinking green
She a pledge A.K.A., she was pink and green
I want a good girl, she want a gentleman
We saying the same thing like a synonym
I wasn't really spitting game I was scrimmaging
My penmanship so hard it needs censorship
I'm a Chicagoan till Chicago ends
Till we blow like Chicago wind
I don't know what's better, getting laid or getting paid
I just know when I'm getting one, the other's getting away
This way
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Rakaa Iriscience]
Go 'head, flip a coin so the game can start
Believe I know the drama, kid name the part
I learned before the hot flame came the spark
It's like before the pop fame came to 'Pac
But this industry'll play with your life man
They playing with your rent, food, water and lights man
That's why Rakaa brings it like that ol' Toddy Tee jam
The Batterram
 
then I'm off to Amsterdam
To rest up for strength to deal with this weight
To deal with these deals, to deal with this hate
I dedicate this Jam Master Jay
Run-D.M.C. showed me how to walk, this way
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
Yo Gee, they can't stop me from rapping, can they? Can they, Hop?
I spit it through the wire, man
There's too much stuff on my heart right now, man
I'd gladly risk it all right now
It's a life-or-death situation, man
Y'all, y'all don't really understand how I feel right now
It's your boy 
Kanye to the
... 
Chi-town, what's goin' on?
[Verse 1]
I drink a Boost for breakfast, an Ensure for dessert
Somebody ordered pancakes, I just sip the sizzurp
That right there could drive a sane man berserk
Not to worry, 
Mr. H-to-the-Izzo's
 back to 
wi-zerk
How do you console my mom or give her light support
Telling her her son's on life support?
And just imagine how my girl feel
On the plane, scared as hell that her guy look like Emmett Till
She was with me before the deal, she been trying to be mine
She a Delta, so she been throwing that Dynasty sign
No use in me tryin to be lyin', I been trying to be signed
Trying to be a millionaire, how I used two lifelines
In the same hospital where Biggie Smalls died
The doctor said I had blood clots, but I ain't Jamaican, man
Story on MTV and I ain't trying to make a band
I swear this right here, history in the making, man
[Interlude]
I really apologize for everything right now, if it's unclear at all, man
They got my mouth wired shut for like I dunno, the doctor said like six weeks
Y'know he had, 
I had reconstructive surgery on my jaw
I looked in the mirror and half my jaw was in the back of my mouth,
 man, I couldn't believe it
But I'm still here for y'all right now, man
This what I got to say right here, dawg
[Verse 2]
What if somebody from the Chi' that was ill got a deal
On the hottest rap label around?
But he wasn't talking about 
coke and birds
It was more like spoken word
Except he's really putting it down?
And he explained the story about how blacks came from glory
And what we need to do in the 
game
Good dude, bad night, right place, wrong time
In the blink of a eye, his whole life changed
If you could feel how my face felt, you would know how Mase felt
Thank God I ain't too cool for the safe belt!
I swear to God driver two wants to sue
I got a lawyer for the case to keep what's in my safe safe
My dogs 
couldn't tell if I
I looked like Tom Cruise in Vanilla Sky,
 
it was televised
There's been an accident like GEICO
They thought I was burnt up like Pepsi did Michael
I must got a angel
Cause look how death missed his ass
Unbreakable, what you thought, they'd call me Mr. Glass?
Look back on my life like the Ghost of Christmas Past
Toys "R" Us where I used to spend that Christmas cash
And I still won't grow up, I'm a grown-ass kid
Swear I should be locked up for stupid shit that I did
But I'm a champion,
 
so I turned tragedy to triumph
Make music that's fire
, 
spit my soul through the wire
[Outro]
Y'know what I'm saying?
When the doctor told me I had, um, that I was gonna have to have a plate in my chin, I said
"Dawg, don't you realize I'll never make it on a plane now?
It's bad enough I got all this jewelry on!" Haha
She can't be serious, man


[Intro]
Through the wire
To the wall
All my rhymes is raw
All these beats beats beats beats beats
All of 'em coulda been lost
I always got to floss
I almost paid the cost
So before I go...
[Verse 1]
Every sunset feel righter, sunshines feel brighter
Please light ya lighter for the producer and the writer
Feel like God wrote this, I'm just here to quote this
I don't know if you noticed, them accident pictures is bogus
Doctor, doctor, would you please say somethin'?
I know I almost was the final destination
I musta had a blessin' from Pastor Mason
Cause that trip to L.A. coulda been my last vacation
And, man, I know I can
Drop a down payment on that Porsche Cayenne
But, what, I went along with the plan
Paid for my own video, directed by my man
I know God was holdin' my hand
Wouldn't let me go before I went before Def Poetry Jam
Wouldn't let me throw in the towel 'fore I got to throwin' some vowels
'Bout what we goin' through now
Out the blue girls got a crush on me like I did beats for Mr. Cheeks
And since the accident, they tellin' me that it's the cheeks
But if you look at history, the last rapper that almost died
Sold 6.5 'cept I'm comin' from the Chi
[Hook]
Through the wire
To the wall
All my rhymes is raw
All these beats beats beats beats beats
All of them coulda been lost
I always got to floss
I almost paid the cost
So before I go to sleep sleep sleep
Always thank the Lord
For this mic and my keyboard
Heck you know that boy is raw
[Verse 2]
Now even though I ain't wired up
We-we-we fired up
You ain't seen my concerts lately, they be linin' up
You ain't seen my girls lately, they be tryin' to cut
And they heard about my girl so I still chill
Cause Monica Lewinsky already killed Bill
And that girl that was with Kobe tried to go for the kill
I think he put it in the wrong Holyfield
Can I take a minute with y'all to be totally real?
Far as my jaw and all, it ain't totally heal
If I would have died, 10/23 of last year
That would have threw a monkey wrench in my whole career
But me
, 
I took the worst thing, turn it into the best thing
I'm from the Chi, I guess it's just a Midwest thing
Times like this make life interesting
Times like this make me count my blessings
Cause you could run around like King of the Chi
But God could take that in a blink of a eye
I remember Cedars Sinai and all those cryin'
Mama I'm sorry for almost dyin'
Tell 
Alwe
 
G and Hip Hop man
Tell 
Don I'ma John Monopolize the game
Add on Benny Medina, we gon' take 'em to the cleaners
I'm Kanye West, the college dropout slash genius
[Hook]
[Outro]
Now if the Roc is in the building say, "Hell yeah!"
Throw your diamonds in the air
If the Roc is in the building say, "Hell yeah!"
Throw your diamonds in the air
If the Roc is in the building say, "Hell yeah!"
Throw your diamonds in the air
Throw your diamonds in the air
Throw your diamonds in the air
Now keep 'em in the air
Yeah yeah yeah yeah
Yeah yeah yeah yeah
We outta here
College Dropout


This the remix
I mean, I ain't really into rims and all that
If I'mma take, five, ten stacks of some D's
 
it's gonna be some different kind of D's
You know what I'm saying? Hm?
Kanye's got stacks, ya'll already know that
Louis
 that, 
Gucci this,
 just got a model chick
(
Throw some D's on that bitch
!)
Just got a stripper chick
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
Something feel different
Cute little college chick, lining up a scholarship
Just got a school grant, spent that on some new tits
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
Ain't that a true bitch?
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
Let me show you how to do this shit
Get you a cute chick, face got potential
Working with her little hips, waist like a pencil
Know how niggas play you, but you know how 'Ye do
Says she love Beyonce, let me upgrade you
Spanish chick grab my chain, says "is that Jesus?"
If I'm unfaithful, blame it on the Grey Goose
All my friends says implants is a selfish gift
, they all up in
She ain't pregnant but about to have twins
Now, is it real love, I need to ask Cupid
She real smart but her ass stupid
And she gon' finish school and get all type of degrees
But I bet she never had them D's
Kanye's got stacks, y'all already know that
Louis that, Gucci this, just got a model chick
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
Just got a stripper chick
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
Man, that's a prerequisite
Cute chick living good, down here in Hollywood
Upcoming actress, but she got a flat chest
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
That'll give her access
(Throw some D's on that bitch!)
Let me show you what happened
Walking down 
Melrose
, spot where they sell clothes
That chick know she bad, tell by the 
Chloe bag
She ain't no hoodrat, she ain't gotta prove that
I peep the McCartney's,
 
Stella got her groove back
Hold on, lemme ask you, why you spend your money on that shallow shit?
Why don't you buy some bigger tits?
Something that'll last you
I couldn't tell you if 
Halle
's really real
But I'mma let you know soon as I get a chance to feel
I don't need no hands to know Lindsay Lohan
She on the same program as Britney, is you wit' me?
That's why I respect Alicia Keys
She say fuck getting them D's
I'mma just ride out with these


Kanye
.. And we have.. M-O-B-B, Yo, Yeah
C'mon drop that, Yeah, Uh-huh
Just throw your hands in the air
Yeah.. Yo
[Havoc]
I'm there for you, here with you, it's clear its crystal
I air before you only get stronger the things, you been through
I don't kill you thats what it'll do
Run with a few multiple-scribed, they say we belong in a fuckin' zoo
We done crashed all sorts of clubs forcin' the love
Often above them cowards and them so called thugs
When we come through respect is there, cause we demand it
Know the mobb is in the building, we officially landed
Keep your eyes on the man with the hammers, they can't stand us
Try to raid us the faggots snitchin' and got the cameras
Cock the cannons but shorty just keep dancin' cuz it might
Be a chance that it won't pop off
If it do stay close to the wall, we gettin' it on
You about to witness fellas who gifted in brawl
My homie Lyndon Erik Da Bob pissin' you off
This southern cat finnin' to get it so kiss ya cross
[Hook]
So if you goin' thru it but you won't let it hold you down
(Just throw up your hands) C'mon ma
We gon party to the crack of dawn lets get it on with the girls and me and my mans
[Prodigy]
Theres only few things I die for
Infamous my family, this money, sonny I hit the sky for
We don't take time off, we take rhymes off
Come with somethin better than that, to blow your mind more
Gettin our shine on... I think this due for a storm, hurricane Mobb
Rain on your parade and you can thank god
Or you can thank P, for simply not squeezin'
Really it wasn't called for, and you don't want it
To call for it, don't play my gun, it go off
Inside of your head oops, niggas be dead
Then we drooped in the Coupes real heavy on the gas
Out there like the concord
I show you how to get murdered, and the cops never catch on
I show you how to do songs, then after than show
You how to do them contracts and get yours
[Hook 2x]
[Havoc]
We ain't finished yet c'mon baby bring it back c'mon
You know that thing in the stash box
Ready to pop bast in the spot you stunt, you know we gon lock ass
Inevitable, can't control them slugs
Came from a place, that shape and mold them thugs
Flood the block with nothin but that gangsta shit
Y'all dead on that, now take ya miss, bitch
[Prodigy]
It's plain to see, that you could never snake me
I never let the grass grow past my Nikes
Summertime in our wife beats, 
boiled this brick
Outside with thermo shirts underneath tees
I stalely keep a mack on me, and let people
Try and contest Mobb Deep
Uh, yeah, yeah, c'mon
[Hook]
Yeah
M-O-B-B Baby
(Just throw up your hands)
0-4.. Kanye
Flip it out my nigga


I speak the truth
Truth, nothin but the truth
Y'all know what I bring to the game I speak the truth
The truth, nothing but the truth
[Beanie Mac]
I hope you got an extra mic and a fire proof booth
Cuz you know I'm known to melt a wire or two
You need a fire engineer when I lay this blaze
I melt down cracks that's real to save
Hit the studio, jars of dro, bars to blow
B. Sigel with that arsenic flow
Fuck that, don't hold me back
I roll with crack, y'all cats told Mac to rap
Y'all don't realize y'all released the beast untame
Speech all flame, streets y'all blame
It should be an honor for y'all to speak my name
I could go before your honor sit and peep my game
Gotta laugh, y'all acted like it spit it the same
Why you motherfuckers can't get in the game
I come from high school, and go straight to the league
Who you know who can spit at the Sig
CHORUS 2X
Nigga the truth, every time I step in the booth
I speak the truth, y'all know what I'm bringing to you
I bring the truth, you motherfuckers know who I be
I be the truth, what I speak shall set you free
Nigga the truth
[Beanie Mac]
Ain't nothin changed with Sig I'm still stuck in the kitchen
So what I'm signed, that's fine still stuck in position
You motherfuckers know me well, couple court cases from jail
Couple 4-4 shells from hell
Stuck on this mission, go home, my girl fussin and bitchin
Motherfucker won't you change your life, I'm thinkin
Motherfucker won't I change my wife
Ignorant bastard laughin like fuck the rap shit
It's just another hustle, another way for niggas to touch you
Now they know the face of Beans
Now they, see my face on screens and I ain't even chase this dream
I feel sorry for those who did
Y'all niggas can't stop the boar
, whether rock or raw
I'm slingin coke in a Roc velour
You niggas know what block I'm on, Glock in palm
You wanna get shot, karate chopped or stabbed this song
Motherfucker
CHORUS
[Beanie Mac]
Black Friday management, and Roc's the label
And I still hit you niggas with shots that's fatal
That bullshit vest can't save you
I had a doc open you up from chest to navel
See my face on cable, and have flashbacks of that cold ass table
And them hoes I gave you
I'm that nigga that'll come and pour salt in your wound
At the hospital, while the cops guardin your room
You gotta see what I've seen, look where I've looked
Touch what I've reached, and take what I've took
You gotta go where I've gone, walked where I've walked
To get where I'm at to speak what I've talked
You gotta lay where I've laid, stay where I've stayed
Play where I've played to make what I've made
You gotta move what I've moved, use what I used
Use tools how I use, use fools how I use
CHORUS


"Electro-convulsive therapy part one."
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I can't stop till we all ball
And walk around with gold in our mouth like Paul Wall
Nigga fuck all y'all
I'll just stay on the grind and sell out beats
Til I'm all over the hood like LRG
Matter fact all over Chicago
And I'm about to be on Oprah tomorrow
There's nothin' nobody can ever say to top that line
I'm in housewives' livin' rooms, stop that shine
Y'all already know Kan is a legend like John is
Rockin' that Louis Vuitton that only a don get
Got beef, 
bitches gettin' they Boost on
They bring me that Gucci 
I give 'em a Boost phone
Fel feel the new song so he give it airplay
Got calls 'bout Diamond from Nas and Jay on the same day
Fan's askin', "Where yo ass been?"
Weak niggas been eatin' while you been fastin'
But you can ask 
Kaz 1
When my shit drop, y'all has-beens
Been gainin' popularity now I'm bout to cash in
[Verse 1: Bump J]
I used to sell coke before I got in this rap shit
I wrap bricks now my [?] is a mattress
You runnin' from the cops, tryin' to get that lil' pack flipped
I'm runnin' round tryin' to stick my dick in an actress
The mac spit, it can make that ass do back flips
Smoke a nigga, I'd rather just poke a nigga like cactus
Come up off that daddy
Take a nigga's jewels then walk right past him with them on the next day
Goons
Mob get in, get in tune
It's plenty room
The back seats feel like a living room
He's a great
These left rights will beat your face
Poppin' bottles, my brother just beat his case
I up the iron, every one of you will bail
I got fully semi hand guns and none of them for sale
Yeah, homie peep my steez
My ice game sick, I got a lot of stones like
[Verse 3: Sly Polaroid]
You know what I'm about
Money and gun play
The right stain will make a nigga rich in one day
Rappers
Stop askin' about Boogz and Kanye
You know I can't let your stupid ass get Bump J
I'm ten with a gun when I fired it work
Around the same time I got tired of church
Yeah, as a shorty I ain't play with the fireworks
I ran up on niggas and show them how the fire work
I remember when we was just kids with no names
Then we start robbin' dealerships, usin' cocaine
The money was best, the power was next
For that paper
I shoot slugs out of the tec
I mean Sly jumped out of the rest
And have a nigga butt naked, puttin' cigarettes out on his chest
I'm a Goon Squad gangster you can't make a nigga say we cowards
Niggas already know what it is when they play the album
I hustle the streets with the shit that look like baby powder
You was at home with a bitch, tryin' to suck a baby bottle
They took me out the streets now I'm back on 'em
Fuck a credit card, know Sly got the stacks on 'em
Know that
And know Sly got the straps on 'em
My white Air Force 1's don't got a scratch on 'em
If I ain't a gangsta nigga what do you call that?
I fresh out on bond with a pistol and all black
If you was gettin' money I was comin' for all that
Cheif gave me a hundred thou
Told me to fall back
You heard about the shit we carry around
I kidnap, rob 'em, starve niggas
Last victim lost thirty pounds
This is a dirty town
I wouldn't of never took 'em but he called for the cheese and
His bitch didn't hurry down


[Intro: R. Kelly]
Let me see you put your middle fingers up
To the world, I made up in my mind
I'm doin' things my way, I'm burnin' shit down tonight
I'm doin' things my way, it's my way or the highway
Let me say it one more time
[Hook: R. Kelly]
Let me see you put your middle fingers up
To the world, to the world, to the world
To the world, to the world, to the world
Let me see you put your middle fingers up
Middle fingers up!
[Verse 1: R. Kelly]
(Motherfucker)
Deuces minus one
Middle finger to the sky tonight (Ay, ay, ay)
The whole world is a couch
Bitch I'm Rick James tonight (I don't give a fuck)
Throw it up, throw it up
Cause you can't take it with you
Funny how they wait 'til you gone just to miss you
To the world, to the world
Then I'm on my Sinatra, I'm doing it my way
Let's take it a notch up, take it up
Let me see you put your middle fingers up!
To the world, I made up in my mind
Doing things my way, I'm burning shit down tonight
I'm doing things my way, it's my way or the highway
Let me see you one more time
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Mmm ain't this some shit?
 
Pulled up in the A-V-entador
And the doors, raise up, like praise the Lord
Did the fashion show, and a tour, this the movie and a score
This a ghetto opera,
 
Francis Foreign Car Coppola
I need a new crib to hold my plaques,
 
Rick Ross'd told me that
Said I'd be all up in Goldman Sachs
Like, "These niggas tryna hold me back
These niggas tryna hold me back",
 
I'm just trying to protect my stacks
Mitt Romney, don't pay no tax, Mitt Romney, don't pay no tax
Chi-Town 'til I'm on my back, Chi-Town 'til I'm on my back
Only nigga in Beverly Hills, where the hell is Axel Foley at?
"Ease up there, baby boy": Ving Rhames told Jody that
R. Kelly and the God of rap
Shitting on you, holy crap
[Hook]
[Outro: Teyana Taylor]
I could give it all up, but it's not enough
Ay ay, here you go, my middle finger
To the world, to the world, from the ground to the moon
Hills to the mountains
, 
yeah, hands to the roof
Give it up, give it up, won't let you deny me
Makin' you love me, makin' you love me


[Hook: Kanye West]
I'ma need you to touch it, touch it, touch it
Or just kiss it, kiss it, shit do something, do something
Can you just touch it, touch it, touch it
Or just kiss it, kiss it, shit do something, do something
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
Please, pretty please
I just wanna see you down on your pretty knees
Or maybe you could touch it, see where it leads
Go 'head, just beat it like you was Billy Jean
You grown and you sexy
, you following the fiend
That coconut Ciroc, see that's all we really need
You in college now, so you too old to tease
I hoping you can polish like Pledge what I need
And I ain't being selfish, we can't call it greed
Cause I return the favour like playing to the screen
I'm moving too fast, cause just when I believe
You came to shut it down like Drake and the Dream
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Yeah, she claiming that she didn't know
How to kiss it like she standing under miseltoe
My love game got you feeling so official though
I let you referee, just let your whistle blow
I'm never out of bounds
, I'm on a higher ground
I'm never empty handed, coming from out of town
The Commes Des Garcons
, 
the Christian Louboutin
The J Brand jeans look like you drew 'em on
I don't deny it, baby I just buy it
Once I get the mood right, maybe you should try it
Alas, I'm past on my past
I ran like the flash and I saved the best for last
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
See we can take it slow, or we can take it there
I'm thinking lap dance and you should take a chair
We both give a little, we just play it fair
You see this back and forth, for me it's kinda rare
Put out cards on the table, let's play 
truth or dare
Let your hair down, I don’t have you pegged as a square
Just let loose as you ride in that ruthless
You my new girl, you allowed to give me goose neck
We don't give a damn, who's watching
Me slowing down, not an option
And the buck hair's waving in the wind
You are such a champ how you take it on the chin
[Hook]


[Produced by Just Blaze]
[Hook - Kanye West]
I gotta testify
Come up in the spot lookin' extra fly
Fore the day I die, I'mma touch the sky
Gotta testify
I'm up in the spot lookin' extra fly
'Fore the day I die, I'mma touch the sky
[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
Back when they thought pink Polos would hurt the Roc
Before Cam got the shit to pop
The doors was closed, I felt like Bad Boy's street team
I couldn't work The LOX
Now let's go, take 'em back to the plan
Me and my momma hopped in that U-Haul van
Any pessimists I ain't talk to them
Plus I ain't have no phone in my apart-a-ment
... Let's take 'em back to the club
Least about an hour I stand on line
I just wanted to dance,
 
I went to Jacob an hour
After I got my advance, I just wanted to shine
Jay favorite line: "Dawg, in due time!"
Now he look at me, like, "Damn, dawg! You where I am!"
A hip-hop legend, 
I think I died
In that accident, cause this must be heaven
[Hook]
Now let's take them hi-ah-igh-igh-igh-ighhhh(Top of the world baby)
(Top top of the world)
A-la-la-la-lah-la-lahhhhh(Top of the world baby)
(On top of the world)
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
Back when Gucci was the shit to rock
Back when Slick Rick had the shit to pop
I'd do anything to say I got it
Damn, them new loafers hurt my pocket
Before anybody wanted K. West beats
Me and my girl split the buffet at KFC
Dog, I was having nervous breakdowns
Like "Man - these niggas that much better than me?"
Baby, I'm going on an airplane
And I don't know if I'll be back again
Sure enough, I sent the plane tickets
But when she came to kick it, things became different
Any girl I cheated on, sheets I skeeted on
Couldn't keep it at home, thought I needed a Nia Long
I'm trying to right my wrongs
But it's funny them same wrongs helped me write this song
[Verse 3 - Lupe Fiasco]
Guess who's on third?
Lupe steal like Lupin the 3rd
Here like ear 'til I'm beer on the curb
Peachfuzz buzz but beard on the verge
Let's slow it down like we're on the syrup
Bottle shaped body like Mrs. Butterworth
But, before you say another word
I'm back on the block like I'm laying on the street
I'm trying to stop "lion" like I'm Mumm-Ra
But I'm not lyin' when I'm laying on the beat
En garde,
 
or touché,
 
Lupe cool as the unthawed
But I still feel possessed as a gun charge
Come as correct as a porn star
In a fresh pair steps in my best foreign car
So, I represent the first
Now let me end my verse right where the horns are
[Outro]
We back at home, baby!
Sky high, I'm, I'm sky high!
Feels good to be home, baby!


Let's have some fun now
Get up and touch it
Get up and touch the sky, come on [7x]
[Bridge]
I gotta testify
Come up in the spot lookin' extra fly
Before the day I die, I'mma touch the sky
Testify
I'm up in the spot lookin' extra fly
'Fore the day I die, I'mma touch the sky
[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
Back when they thought pink Polos would hurt the Roc
Before Cam got them hits to pop
The doors was closed, I felt like Bad Boy's street team
I couldn't work the locks
Now let's go, take 'em back to the plan
Me and my momma hopped in that U-Haul van
Any pessimists I ain't talk to them
Plus I ain't have no phone in my apart-a-ment
Take 'em back to the club
Least about an hour I stand on line
I just wanted to dance, I went to Jacob an hour
After I got my advance, I just wanted to shine
Jay favorite line: "Dawg, in due time!"
Now he look at me, like, "Damn, dawg! You where I am!"
A hip-hop legend, I think I died
In a accident, cause this must be heaven
[Bridge]
[Hook]
Now let's take them hi-ah-igh-igh-igh-ighhhh(Top of the world baby)
(Top top of the world)
A-la-la-la-lah-la-lahhhhh(Top of the world baby)
(On top of the world)
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
Back when Gucci was the hits to rock
Back when Slick Rick had the shit to pop
I'd do anything to say I got it
Damn, them new loafers hurt my pocket
Before anybody wanted K. West beats
Me and my girl split the buffet at KFC
Dog, I was having nervous breakdowns
Like "Man - these niggas that much better than me?"
Baby, I'm going on an airplane
And I don't know if I'll be back again
Sure enough, I sent the plane tickets
But when she came to kick it, things became different
Any girl I cheated on, sheets I skeeted on
Couldn't keep it at home, thought I needed a Nia Long
I'm trying to right my wrongs
But it's funny them same wrongs helped me write this song
[Bridge]
Now say: I'm, I'm sky high
Feels good to be home, feels good to be home
Are y'all happy you came to VH1 Storytellers?
Get up and touch the sky, come on
I am so disappointed, that I cannot see me perform
Except for on playback
My greatest pain in live, is that I'll never see me perform
So you are welcome to know a pleasure, that I will never have
Come on [20x]
This song is what inspired 808's and Heartbreak more than anything
Because we used do this at the end of the tour every night
And I would do it for – how many of you saw the Glow In The Dark tour in the room tonight?
Thank you so much, for coming to the tour
So y’all remember at the end of the show I would do this song
And I would say some inspirational words and I would sing
And I had the opportunity to just kind of do it and play it off
But I discovered that I love to sing
So much and to my thing and harmonize and just go up and down and just fuck around
I really feel like a vessel
And I open my mouth and God will let beautiful words flow through
That’s why I realized that he chose me and he has a path for me
Because half the things that come out, I can’t be responsible for
And I guess he just wants me to say more and more and more and never be insecure and always be sure, be sure
And he will give me the strength I need to endure, for sure
As I tour and bring the pure
So much more, more, for sure
For your entertainment, education and relation
To take away your hesitation and segregation
In a country full of immigrants, where no one really was born here, but separated here
It’s a beautiful thing that in a country that was so divided by the concept of black and white
We now have a black and white president
And this is what the future is to me
The juxtaposition: two things that you think don’t go together
When a black, super-Hip-Hop-dressed dude gets on an elevator and there’s an old lady with Chanel and she grabs her purse
I’ll give you a cliché example
What would happen if they actually talk to each other?
What would she learn? What would he learn?
When the rich man hopping out the Lincoln Town Car, passes by the homeless person
And they actually talk to each other
What would he learn? What would he learn?
If a black man, that came from Chicago and was taught to stand so far away from gay people, ‘cause you do not want to be accused of being gay
Was to talk to a gay person
What would he learn? What did I learn?
I learned that people in Chicago was wrong
And I’ve been an asshole all along
A lot of things that you learn are wrong
So don’t be an asshole too long, too long, too long
You can’t be an asshole too long
You can’t be an asshole too long
‘Cause the more you know, the more you grow, the more responsibility you have show what you know
And give everything that you got to give, baby that’s the reason God let me live through the accident without practicing
Okay, got to bring this up and bring it back again
Okay, okay, okay, okay
Alright [7x]
No publishing Outkast, please
Alright [5x]
Shout out to three G’s
One of the few dressed quite as fresh as me


JIMMY KIMMEL IS OUT OF LINE TO TRY AND SPOOF IN ANY WAY THE FIRST PIECE OF HONEST MEDIA IN YEARS
JIMMY KIMMEL, I DON'T TAKE IT AS A JOKE…. YOU DON'T HAVE SCUM BAGS HOPPING OVER FENCES TRYING TO TAKE PICTURES OF YOUR DAUGHTER
JIMMY KIMMEL PUT YOURSELF IN MY SHOES … OH NO THAT MEANS YOU WOULD HAVE GOTTEN TOO MUCH GOOD PUSSY IN YOUR LIFE…
YOU CAN'T PUT YOURSELF IN MY SHOES. YOUR FACE LOOKS CRAZY… IS THAT FUNNY?… OR IF I HAD A KID SAY IT WOULD IT BE FUNNY???
SHOULD I DO A SPOOF ABOUT YOUR FACE OR YOU FUCKING BEN AFFLECK… #NO DISRESPECT TO BEN AFFLECK #ALL DISRESPECT TO JIMMY KIMMEL!!!!
SHOULD I DO A SPOOF ABOUT YOUR FACE OR YOU FUCKING BEN AFFLECK…#NODISRESPECTTOBENAFFLECK #ALLDISRESPECTTOJIMMYKIMMEL!!!!
I LIKE YOU, YOU KNOW ME, I WENT TO YOUR FAMILY'S WEDDING
WHO YOU MADE IT CLEAR TO ME WASN'T YOUR FAMILY WHEN I WAS ON THEN PHONE WITH YOU 5 MINUTES AGO, YOU MANIPULATIVE MEDIA MUTHERFUCKER
SARAH SILVERMAN IS A THOUSAND TIMES FUNNIER THAN YOU AND THE WHOLE WORLD KNOWS IT!!!
Pic.twitter.com/dN6hp9vS9h
Pic.twitter.com/EmNwkBSI0d


Ten years ago today we finally released what had been my life's work up to that point: The College Dropout
I say "finally" because it was a long road, a constant struggle, and a true labor of love
To not only convince my peers and the public that I could be an artist, but to actually get that art out for the world to hear
I am extremely grateful to each and every person along that road who helped, lent an ear, lent their voice
Gave of their heart to that project, and to all the projects that followed, and are to come
I am honored and humbled by my fans, for the unwavering support and love over the past ten years
I wake up every day trying to give something back to you that you can rock to and be proud of
Ten years later I am still the same kid from Chicago, still dreaming out loud, still banging on the door
The doors may be heavier, but I promise you WE WILL BREAK THEM


[Intro: Kanye West]
We in the streets, playa, get ya mail
It's only two places you end up, either dead or in jail
Still nowhere to go, still nowhere to go
[Half-Hook: Kanye West]
Now throw ya hands up hustlers, busters, boosters, hoes
Everybody, fuck that
Still nowhere to go, still nowhere to go
[Verse 1: Mos Def]
Two words, United States, no love, no breaks
Low brow,
 
high stakes,
 
crack smoke, black folks
Big Macs, fat folks,
 
ecstasy capsules
Presidential scandals
, everybody move
Two words, Mos Def, K. West, hot shit
Calm down, get back, 
ghetto people, got this
Game 'pon lock shit, gun 'pon cock shit
We won't stop shit, everybody move
Two words, 
BK, NY, Bed Stuy
Too harsh, too hungry, too many, that's why
These streets know game, can't ball, don't play
Heavy traffic, one lane, everybody move
Two words, Mos Def
, 
Black Jack
, hot shit
Calm down, get back, ghetto people, got this
Game 'pon lock, gun 'pon cock
We won't stop, everybody move
[Hook: Kanye West 
(w/ Harlem Boys Choir)
]
Now throw ya hands up hustlers, busters, boosters, hoes (Throw your hands up high)
Everybody, fuck that
Still nowhere to go, still nowhere to go
And keep ya hands up hustlers
Busters
, 
boosters
, hoes ('Til they reach the sky)
Everybody, fuck that
Still nowhere to go, still nowhere to go
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Two words, 
Chi-town
, 
South Side, worldwide
Cause I rep that 'til I fuckin' die
One neck two chains,
 
one waist two gats
One wall twenty plaques, dues paid, gimme that
I am limelight,
 
 five mics
Go Getters rhyme like, should've been signed twice
Most imitated
, 
Grammy nominated
Hotel accommodated, cheerleader prom-dated
Barbershop playa-hated
, 
mom-and-pop bootlegged it
Felt like it rained 'til the roof caved in
Two words, Chi-town raised me crazy
So I live by two words:
 
"fuck you, pay me"
Screamin' "Jesus save me"
You know how the game be
I can't let 'em change me
Cause on judgment day, you gon' blame me
Look, God, it's the same me
And I basically know now
We get racially profiled
'Cuffed up and hosed down, pimped up and ho'd down
Plus I got a whole city to hold down
From the bottom so the top's
The only place to go now
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Freeway]
Two words, free way, two letters, AR
Turn y'all rap niggas to two words, fast runners
Like Jackie Joyner
, you better sleep with your burner
The heat skeet, blow a reef through ya car, my God
Two words, no guns, break arms
Break necks, break backs, Steven Seagal
Free, young boss, 
freshman of the Roc
With the beef in the pot Jay sent for his dogs
To brawl
, forget ya squad, better fend for yourself
Have you screamin' out four words, "send for the law", uh
Two words, Freeway slightly retarded
Fuck around, throw a clip in ya artist, leave with his broad
[Outro: Mos Def (w/ Harlem Boys Choir)]
Red, white, blue, black (Throw your hands up)
Calm down, move back
Motherfuckers askin' "who is that?"
You know it's the almighty Black Jack
Mos Def, K. West
Ghetto people get this shit off ya chest
North to the south, to the east, to the west
Black Jack Johnson, it's no contest
(High) And show it to 'em like


[Hook]
Can't come around
They gon' wanna bring you down
No one knows just what's inside
Doing dope and doing time
Why they messing with your mind
Black maybe...
[Common]
I heard a white man's yes is a black maybe
I was delivered in this world as a crack baby
Hard for me to pay attention and I act crazy
Gotta get over from the tip, 
I watch the fat lady
Sing a song, on how we guerillas in warfare
And I'm the kingest kong
They say we dreaming wrong
Them same strips that them older cats lingered on
Now the Walgreens is gone, hope is killed fiends are born
We leanin on a wall that ain't that ain't stable
It's hard to turn on the hood that made you
To leave we afraid to
The same streets that raised you can age you
With other black birds that's caged too
A rage up in Harlem and the southside
Brothers is starving with their mouth wide open
Floating across state 
got the workout plans so they can move weight
The fate of the black man, woman, and child: maybe
[Hook x2]
[Common]
He had game since he used to hoop at Chatham
Neither the ghetto nor defenders could trap him
The stones had his back and they'd pat him
He was living a life they couldn't fathom
Colleges getting at him with all type of scholarships
Even if he went they knew he'd leave college quick
For the pros
 
the one from the hood that was chose
The black rose that grew in the jungle
But humble stud still had rumble in his blood
Women all around giving him trouble love
You know the love when you up they down
Cause you wrap a ball they round
Your win is their crown
Dudes in the circle he known for years
Shared beers and cheers but chose different careers
When paper and fame came they ain't know how to react
Them same studs shot him in the back
Now that's black...maybe
[Hook] - 2X
[Common - talking]
When we talk about black maybe
We talk about situations
Of people of color and because you are that color
You endure obstacles and opposition
And not all the time from...from other nationalities
Sometimes it come from your own kind
Or maybe even your own mind
You get judged..you get laughed at..you get looked at wrong
You get sighted for not being strong
The struggle of just being you
The struggle of just being us
..black maybe
Black maybe...
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I hated on y'all niggas before
But not on no ho shit, I just wanted your hoes
And I ain't gon' lie, I'll lie to a bitch
Quick as hell, you sick as hell, that bitch thick as hell
I let her get my pager, she let me get the cell
Picked her up, did her well, dropped her off, get my mail
Y'all know, she wanna page me all day
Wanna ride the dick like yippee Kanye
I figured though, long as she don't let a nigga know
Game tight, like ankles on Girbauds
And you know go getters be on these hoes
Genuwine, they wanna ride my pony though
Cause their niggas all lame, need to give back their name
Or return their jersey and retire from the game
Why this nigga wanna hate me mane?
Make me take it off safety mane, and make me aim
.380s make it hotter, 87 street
Eight deep in a 
Cadillac Escalada
That I just leased out with my pants creased out
When I pull the piece out, niggas like peace out
[Hook: Kanye West]
Oh, oh, oh, oh
Why these niggas wanna hate me mane?
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Why these niggas wanna hate me mane?
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Gotta take it off safety mane
No, no, no, no, no
No I can't let 'em take me mane
[Verse 2: Timmy G]
They don't wanna see a nigga got it made, rappin' on stage
They'd rather see me packin' a gauge, and actin' my age
They say to get your eyes swole, let 'em know how I roll
Never seen six niggas jump out one Oldsmobile
Nah eight, 
bumpin' Ice Cube
I push rhymes like weight, with nothin' to lose
Still runnin' from the feds in my And 1 shoes
I went from hoppin' fences to jumpin' out of Benzes
...
[Verse 3: GLC]
...
[Hook]


[Un 
] + (Cam'Ron)
Killa what'
 really good my nigga
(Un Casa what's really good)
What's really good flee
Yo, what's really good
I got ta get on this 
 I just signed ta Diplomat yesterday
What's really good
(I mean, I mean the album is done I mean
You know you on the next joint you on my album
I mean what's really good I mean you good you know)
But naw but what's really good I'm in the studio now
It's a beat out there its fire
What's really good I need ta get on this album
I can't be late man what you mean
(I can't, I mean I turned the album in Cas
What you really want me ta do)
Naw call that nigga Dame
Tell him its another joint man what's really good
Dame what's really 
Call him right now what's really good what's really good
(You know what
I'mma put the beat up cause you did sign yesterday
I'mma put you on before we even get the album started
It better be fire I mean what's really good)
What's really good you know I got that PIFF
What's really really really really really good
(Ayo Guru put something up matta fact)
What's really good
(Ayo, Guru you got tha beat up)
Dipset
(Good, ayo)
 bitch
(I got tha beat up)
Killa
(You better spit too man)
Casa I'm in here man
(you made me go through all this shit mother fucker
You better spit that shit
Diplomats 
 
 Freekey
Ayo Brazzy what's really good)
[Un Casa]
It's a shame how I rap so bananas
It's Mr. Two-Gun Un
Mother fuckers better cock back them hammers
You might catch in the drop blowin pop wit 
The hawk on me's not from 
It's just the father to the Glocks in the hamper
Look in the 
 the cops in the camera
I flow hot like blocks down in 
And leave you dead pop 
 from them glammers
And go down south and rock wit them bamas
And come back in the 
 color hot 
Vanilla coat seats piper made by 
 do the wop rims do the Macerana
This is Taliban Dipset Rocafella
It ain't nuthin for Two-Gun ta pop a fella
Killa signed me now I got the mozerella
I promised 
 Un Cas gone rock forever
[Un Casa] + (Cam'Ron
)
What's really good flee what's really good
(Aiight flee I mean that, that that's what's really good
I can't front)
Well what's really good can I finish
(I mean I mean what's really good hold up Two-Gun
I'mma let you finish I mean What's really really good now)
What's really good
(I mean What's really good)
What's really good
(I mean you did your thing I'm wit you what's really good
Lets finish up let's right what's really good)
[Un Casa]
Yo I'm living in tha 
Niggas eat wit Glocks
Enough steel it'll cease the block
Add yeast to increase the rock
I got knowledge that can teach my pops
Watch my pockets increase ta knots
Play the low so I speak ta cops
Walk the beat in my bop an my beef and brocs
Ice in my piece an watch
Ain't too many niggas that can reach the top
Or speak this hot
Peep this pop I leave you not
I rhyme over beats wit the meanest drops
And teens'll flock
Seen my spot an seen my props
Red when you seen the cops
Got your wife suckin siemen cock
I'mma Taliban lyrical monster
They'll shout the city I conqour
White Ice cinnamin Parker
Al Quiada's most vividest author
Hundered thou just ta glitter the charm up
45th sides prettiest monster
The truck look like the city of Tonka
Dame here ta say this nigga is bonkers
Whoa far as tha flow I'm the realest nigga spittin it
Niggas talk hustle game but I'm really gettin it
Anything I want an need nigga I'm gettin it
745 Gucci top wit tha stick in it
The ice is so clear like the shit fishes swimmin in
I ain't Diddy y'all but I'm strictly for the benjamins
I'm tha boss I ain't dealin wit you middle men
Bout ta cop a Yukon white made in cinnamin
[Un Casa] + (Cam'Ron)
Niggas get ya'll fuckin car game up
(Diplomats that's what's really fuckin good)


[Produced by Kanye West]
Holla, holla, hollaaaaa
Holla, holla, hollaaaaa
[Verse 1]
Maybe It's me, maybe I bore you
No, no it's my fault cause I can't afford you
Maybe Baby, Puffy, Jay Z
Would all be better for you
Cause all I could do was love you
[Chorus]
Baby when I used to love you
There's nuttin that I wouldn't do
I went through the fire for you
Anything you asked me to
But I'm tired of living this lie
It's getting harder to justify
I realize that I just don't love you
Not like I used to
Holla, holla, hollaaaaa (yeaaahh)
Holla, holla, hollaaaaa (yeah, yeah, uh, uh)
[Verse 2]
Maybe I should rob somebody
So we could live like
Whitney and Bobby
It's probably my fault
My bad, My loss
You are above cost
All I could do was love you
[Chorus]
[Bridge]
Oh! I used to (Do you remember when I used to)
Love you (used to... Love you)
Oh! But I don't - not you (baby no not any more... I don't love you)
Love you (ooooh, used to ... love you)
Oh! I used to love you
(Ohhh used to love you)
You're gonna miss me now... ohhh
[Chorus] + [Bridge]


[Verse 1 - Lupe Fiasco]
Lifestyles of the rich and famous
Bought a big house and a whole lot of rangers
A fresh new couch and a whole lot of trainers
A closet full of clothes and some brand new dangers
And
Some Mexican floral arrangers
A great big TV that'll entertain us
Some colorful commissions for some high paid painters
Someone to take the rap so that I stay stainless - and
A new relationship with a banker
Two pinky rings for my manicured fingers
A trained German Shepard that bark when it's angered
To watch my possessions and look out for strangers
And
A 50 foot yacht with an anchor
Young supermodel that shall remain nameless
Ups and the downs, the sames and the changes
All the money in the world don't make it painless (no)
[Hook]
(But they love it and they love it)
The more you try to erase me
(And they love it and they love it)
The more that I appear, oh
(and they love it and they love it)
The more, the more you try the eraser
The more that you appear
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
(Plain Pat what up?)
Lifestyles of the broke and famous
Let you know how crazy this game is
Look at all the new beautiful faces
At home supermodel, myspaces
Long for their shot on the TV screens
American Idol never seen these dreams
Just last week they want to see ID
Now they got you in VIP, huh?
How many people almost famous
You almost remember what they name is
Like "Hey, didn't you play in..? No it couldn't be, quit playin"
Try to keep that balance
After MTV that's a Real World Challenge
Back on that train
Never to be heard from again
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Pharrell]
G.R.I.P P.I.M.P
I, any spelling bitch come on that's me
I bring a burning sensation to the urban eye
Like an eye-drop of turpentine
You can listen to the serpent, fine
But the earth got gas once it burps its fine
Someone around me they talk about 
degrees
Not GHG
, 
how to cook a quarter key
Talking all nasal, he ain't over that cold
No glove, scrub, man he just over that stove
Perfect paradigm, wrong place, wrong time
Should have been Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline
Number one chemist
Look at him no blemish
Egg shell off white like a DuPont finish
Young, dumb, high strung, who could handle us
I wonder how God's gon' paint todays canvasses
Cause who knew that day that man would just
Go to VA with a Tec and spray campuses
What a way to see the cover of Time
I know that nigga wish he was standing in line
To see it... as if he didn't do it


I don't know if y'all know this one thing about me, but I ain't no motherfucking celebrity.
 
I don't know if y'all know this one thing about me, but I'm a terrible, terrible, terrible celebrity
. 
I don't know if you know this one thing about me, but I'm the worst kind, the worst kind, the worst kind of celebrity.
 
Because all I do is make real music. All I do is sit in the studio and make real, real shit. And that's it. That's motherfucking it, that's motherfucking it
So I don't want nobody coming up to me with no cameras trying to like, sell pictures and shit to magazines.
 Asking me no dumbass questions. Throwing me off of my focus and shit. Harassing you all mothafucking day. I ain't no motherfucking celebrity. No, no, no, no it's not me. It's too much goddamn you. Lower, lower. Octave under
Y'all take the pianos an octave down.
 Yo, take away the "ha, ha, ha." No "ha, ha, ha." Take that shit
It's so funny, 
somebody asked me "when you do 
, are you going to do like a skit about the paparazzi and shit and like humanize yourself?"
 I ain't here to apologize to no motherfuckers, man. 
It ain't about me humanizing myself
. 
At what point did I become so inhuman where I had to turn myself back? Or maybe I was demonized, maybe I was treated inhumane in that type of situation.
 I ain't a fucking celebrity. I ain't running for office. 
I ain't kissing nobody's motherfucking babies--I drop your baby and then you sue me and shit
I'm trying to make some music that inspires people to be the best they can be -- And I don't want nobody to ask nothing else of me! Don't ask nothing else of me. 
Motherfuckers chasing you down about to make you crash into shit, and all they want you to make is a nigga to laugh and shit.
 
Hell no I ain't doing no 'SNL' skits
, this is my goddamn life, and this ain't no motherfucking joke. That's it, stop that shit


 Hey, good morning, Kanye
: Shut the fuck up
 Hey, Kanye, are you mad at Jim Kimmel? Got anything to say about Jim Kimmel, Kanye? Do you think he was too much with you?
: Yo, did you just..?
 Are you mad at Jim Kimmel?
[A little later…]
 How’s it going, Kanye?
: Don’t say anything to me, man. Like, stop asking me questions. 
You out in front of my house at 4 AM, talking about, ‘How’s it going?” It’s not going good, y’all here trying to take money--to take make money off of it.
 That’s how it’s going. It’s 4 AM and you asking me how it’s going. 
You know I don’t want you to say nothing to me.
 You hear what I’m saying?
Respect that
[Kanye lunges for camera]
 Relax, man
: What you mean, “relax?!”
 We don’t want to fight. We’re in the street
: I'mma change all this
 Come on, Kanye. You know we like you
: Shut the fuck up. It’s 4 AM, you blood sucking mosquito
 You left the bag right there, Kanye

: You want me to be standing outside your house at 4 AM?
 We just want you to know that we’re here to support you--
: Shut the fuck up! You doing that to get more money for TMZ, every question you ask me
 
No, we’re just here to support you--
: 
SHUT THE FUCK UP! You bully! You mosquito bully! Pick a profession with some type of respect to it
[Get its in Lambo, slams door. Revs engine. Exeunt.]


We, should a, never ever, let Michael Jordan play for the wizards
We, should a, never ever, let Michael Jordan play for the wizards
We we, should a, never ever, let MJ play for the wizards
Why did that happen, why did that happen
We, should a, never ever, let MJ play for the wizards
And we coulda stopped it, we coulda stop, MJ playing for the wizards
Why did that happen, why did that happen
6 championships, the best years of our lives
Playing 
playing as a Bull
, every 
single
 night
I believed I could fly, and I wanted to be just like Mike
I believed I could fly, and I wanted to be just like Mike
We, should a, never ever, let MJ play for the wizards
Why did that happen, [??] why did that happen
When a player, when a player wants to become a [?]
When a player, when a players that's done more for the league than the leagues done for him



Now uh, you take the car concept
And I see it every video, every single place I go
Same shit
[Bridge 3: Kanye West (Tim Westwood)]
Man you know the beat ran out on me
I was gonna, I was gonna, I was gonna break down
(That was mean, that was mean!) I was gonna break down to people
Exactly how to make the good song and the good album for a change
(Let's go, let's go, let's go!)
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
First of all, what you need's a beat from me
If you can't get a beat from me, get a beat from your guy
He'll prolly do it for free
And if he do it like [?] he'll prolly do it for E
And if he do [?], he'll prolly do it for skeet
Yo, yo-yo, yo-yo-yo, you gotta bring with your flow
You gotta take it on-beat and off-beat
And don't rap on no fuckin' soft beats
You know that real hard shit, regardless, I played my part in this
Like, this Corner beat, this what you want when you want a beat
And that's when you really is gonna be
A hip-hop legend like Kan, like Kan
Like, of course the Louis Vuitton, 'ton, don, don
If I do say so, myself
And I do all the time, every rhyme
Cause I'm, I'm feelin' myself
And if you was me, you'd be feelin' yourself, you see
If you out in London, you just hopped on a plane
And you just came out of the bathroom, you just got you some brain
Uh, you doin' your thing
And plus you flossin' that Rocafella chain
Aye yo, you know you let Kan spit on 'em
I'm rockin' the Rocafella chain with no conflicts on 'em
Oh, oh
Now let me bring it back to the flow, flow
And how you make the album and you make some dough, dough
Get you a good manager cause your manager'll fuck your game up
Fuck your name up
And uh, if you've been runnin' to a [?]
Trade your chain for some studio time
See a lot of people be flossin' before they get a chance to
A lot of people want club records they wanna dance to
A lot of people want basslines, they will enhance you
Bass in the club is good too, what you should do
Is prolly get a single like Alicia Keys
And if you don't know her, holla at Alicia please
You know one of 'em light skin bitches with the braids
Actin' like they got it made
[?] you give a dawg with a fade
You get somebody that's weak, you get somebody that you know can't flow
And you rap before him, and let him go
And people gon' be like well least you was better than dude
And [?] I don't mean to be rude
And another thing you can do
If you could channel the spirits like I channel
I'm not talkin' 'bout lightin' candles, I'm not talkin' sayonce
I'm talkin' 'bout talkin' to God, I mean just like once
What I do before I rhyme, every day is I pray
I pray to God that he make these songs in a certain way
I let him speak through me, through the beats, through the music
I mean, sometimes I go into the booth and lose it
I mean, I know he speakin' when I freak it in it a way
That I coulda never thought of somethin' better to say
So, our father, who art up above us
I know [?], you still love us
Like when I'm cursin' in my verses and I even do, what's worse is
When I'm spendin' too much, spendin' on purses
And shoes for my girl when I should be helpin' the world
Give back to the charity, he still don't embarrass me
He still let me be, He still keep it real
See that's the thing about humans, we got free will
See the angels gotta do exactly what God want 'em to do
God is still with you, even when we don't do
So, follow the path, follow the laws
Follow the reason, the reasons why it's wrong
You never heard a freestyle like this before-'fore
And I know that hip-hop fans want more
[Outro: Kanye West]
Westwood, what's good
Holla at your boy, Kanye the Louis Vuitton Don
The Roca stay, buildin'
Yeah, it's G.O.O.D. Music baby
After you freestyle like that you just talk shit for about eight minutes


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I wish all wack niggas’ll get out the game
You can’t con me that’s half my name
And if you had any brains
You wouldn’t wanna lose half your brain
By hating on players in the game
Wack nigga, the beat go “duh duh da”
And then yo flow go way the fuck off
I kill ya’ll niggas on that lyrical shit
Mayonnaise colored Benz, I push Miracle Whips
But I’m not trying to cause commotion
And have my niggas bring all the toast in
I just want your girl to rub my balls with lotion
Cuz you got madder if ya (?)
But you came at me like “Yo
I got the 
Kia with the woodgrain
”
Yeah you would, lame
“On the real, in the street I got the good name
I got the TV –“
Yeah that’s good man
[Verse 2: Talib Kweli]
It’s time to change up, my lyrics rip your frame up
Askin’ if I’m nice, like fucking with a chick that don’t give head
That’s a no-brainer
Niggas pack bangers ya’ll don’t even know the names of
I’m about to meet the quota, you about to the savior
Wack nigga
You about to get shot
Fuck with Talib Kweli, 
that’s how you get got
Word, not that I’m wylin’ or even promote violence
It’s just you fucking up my high, can’t a nigga smoke in silence?
You wack niggas
[Hook: Kanye West + (Talbi Kweli)]
Wake up in the morning, dawg, you just a (wack nigga)
I’d kill myself if I was that (wack nigga)
Everything you wear and rock, is just (wack nigga)
Even if you flossin' rocks you just (wack nigga)
You can't do it dawg you's a (wack nigga)
Bitin' ass, bitch ass, trick ass (wack nigga)
Even your daughter says "My daddy's a - " (Wack nigga)
You wack nigga!
[Bridge: Kanye West]
( In the beginnin’) is forcing me to keep ya here
Black strap, white handle, I got jungle fever
Black Benz
, white truck and 1-2 seater
Wack niggas hold hands and follow the procedure
Cuz I got enough tools that one gon’ leave ya
If I drop enough dudes, man one gon’ reach ya
If they build enough schools, man one gon’ teach ya
Kanye this shit but I ain’t tryin’ to be facetious
[Outro: Kanye West + (Talbi Kweli)]
Wake up in the morning, dawg, you just a (wack nigga)
I’d kill myself if I was that (wack nigga)
Everything you wear and rock, is just (wack nigga)
Even if you flossin' rocks you just (wack nigga)
Gotta name drop to get a girl naked (wack nigga)
Plus yo ass can’t sell one record (wack nigga)
Even your daughter says "My daddy's a - " (Wack nigga)
“Why is daddy so wack, nigga?”


[Consequence]
Yeah
Yo...let me, let me, let me, let me tell you why - why
This nigga...why we dedicated this song to this kind of nigga
Cuz number one, duke is drivin' in the motherfuckin' projects
With a - with a Sebring, and with - with a rag off
Y'na'mean? Y-you not ballin' like that play-boy
Straight up, then the bitch you got playin' shotgun
Like, I used to serve that bitch, c'mon
Really really good, I mean
 
and you gotta shirt and tie
You wack ass nigga...
[Common]
Wack niggas...I don't even like to be around 'em
Give 'em dap or pound 'em
See 'em out, they houndin' dawg
Sayin' they got tracks for me to get down on
Sayin' they hot when that shit don't even sound warm
Nigga I'm nasty, my style is sound porn
The graphic, exposin' wack asses
I emcee as free as Ol' Dirty Bastard
You think you Catholic tryin' to appeal to the masses
The Cassius Clay of rap today
Rock a beard like Castaway
You couldn't be dope for even half a day
We keep it hot like its after May
Smoke a nigga then I pass to K
[Kanye West]
The pastor say we goin' to mass today
We have to pray, these niggas is wack 'n' eh
I have to say, since Pac passed away
Most these niggas don't even deserve a track from me
First of all let's get rid of them Louis Vuitton boots
And get yo tall ass out that C Class coupe
Y'see the whiskay had them girls feelin' friskay
You was with mey, she said "Who's the sissay?"
And even if they did wanna get bizzay
Freaky like Missay
 
and roll the weed up
You would roll three blunts and fuck up three blunts
Motherfucka you would fuck up a free lunch, dawg
Just keep it right thurr like Chingay
Yo girl don't like me how long has shee been gay
Spanish girls tell ya "No hable ingle"
And everbody wanna run to me for they single
It's funny how these wack niggas need my help
Wasn't around when I couldn't feed myself
Dawg, if I was you I wouldn't feel myself
Dawg, if I was you I'd kill myself
[Hook - Kanye West]
(Wack nigga) Wake up in the morning dawg, and you a
(Wack nigga) I'd kill myself if I was that
(Wack nigga) Everything you wear and rock, is just
(Wack nigga) Even if you flossin' rocks you still
(Wack nigga) You can't do it dawg, you's a
(Wack nigga) Bitin' ass, bitch ass, trick ass
(Wack nigga) Even your daughter says "My daddy's a - "
(Wack nigga - You wack nigga!)
[Consequence]
You know you wack when ya dawgs tell you
That's how you know ya flow is weak
Cuz you only got them there to 'Say Yes' like Floetry
The clique that I oversee ain't impressed by ya poetry
You're the place you're supposed to be
You ain't ain't comin' close to me
It ain't that you underrated
It's more that you're under dated
And mediocre at best is all the hoes you've ever dated
For all your guest appearances
You couldn't get the clearances
For them it's just a check they don't respect you as a lyricist
Look at what ya lyrics is, Murder, Death, Kill
But you never shot nothin', never have, never will
Better add on to ya skills before you join this round robin
Of super emcees that'll add to ya problems
[Talib Kweli]
In the beginnin', God created man in his own image
I'm 'bout to tell you how the story gon' finish
Kweli handle his business, niggas don't forget it
Cause a wiseman can choose to get ignorant with it
Na'mean - 
you all can get it, I'm conisdered the nicest
The way I spit it give these niggas all identity crisis
All day talkin' that shit like, "You hold a gat, right?"
The trip you on must be short cause you pack light - act right
You got it twisted, tellin' niggas that you pack heat
You ain't gunning now, you runnin' like an athlete
You ballas need to quit rhymin' like Allen Ive
Start speakin' Nuwaubian and followin' Malachi
Or anything but rhyme, you need to sell drugs for real
Instead of on the radio, you'd be dead or in jail
All these thug niggas wanna rap
And all these rap niggas wanna thug
And all ya'll fuckin' the game up
It's time to change up, my lyrics rip ya frame up
Askin' if I'm nice like fuckin' with a chick
Who don't give head - that's a no-brainer
Niggas back bangers you don't even know the names of
I'mma bout to meet my quota, you about to meet ya Saviour
You wack nigga, you about to get shot
Fuck with Talib Kweli, that's how you get got boy!
Not that I'm wildin' or even promote violence
It's just you're fuckin' up my high, can a nigga smoke in silence?!
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West]
Oh, whoa ho ho!
I knew I was gon' see you again! Knew I was gon' see you again!
Where your goddamn book bag at?
Always carryin' that lil' book bag, nobody wants to see that!
Goddamn 4th grader, sit your ass down!
He wanna play it again like he got somethin' else to do
You ain't got somethin' else to do!
You ain't doin' nothin' wit' your life, nothin' wit' your life!
You think this is?
You better look at me when I'm talkin' to you!
You think this shit easy, don't you?
You think this is promised!
Well ain't nothin' promised to you!
Look at my face, do I got a promised face?
Does it look like I promised you anything?
Kanye, nigga-is you snorin' in my class?
Wake up Mr. West!


[Intro: The-Dream]
Hello? Hello? Hello...
Is there anybody up here?
Hello?
Welcome...2085. Twenty eighty-five it is
Just me up here I guess
[Verse One: The-Dream]
The magic of the moment snuck up on me
And caught me by surprise
Roamin' and I'm lonely
But I'm only
There's somethin in your eyes
And I know it's not just the song
(And I know it's not just the song)
And I know it's not just the drink
(And I know it's not the drink)
But whatever it might be
(Whatever it might be)
Just keep holdin' on to me
[Hook]
Cause I'll pull down a cloud for you
I'll circle the stars and bring you one back
I'll walk through the sun for you
Cause there's somethin' you do
That got me walkin' on the moon
There's something you do
That got me walkin' on the moon
And I know that it's true
Baby you got me walkin' on the moon
[Verse Two: The-Dream]
Don't keep me waitin', I'm impatient
C'mon to my runway, lets take off and fly
Now I'm where I wanna be
Come co-pilot with me
Lets burn up the sky
And I know it's not just the song
(And I know it's not just the song)
And I know it's not just the drink
(And I know it's not the drink)
But whatever it might be
(Whatever it might be)
Just keep holdin on to me
[Hook]
[Bridge: The-Dream]
Everyone out there will know that you are my girl
And my love will circle around and round
No matter what I do
[Verse Three: Kanye West]
Aye aye Dream I'm too good at this
U
hh, uhh, uhh, I can't contain it
No, no, no I can't restrain it
There's a lot of stars in here ain't it?
But you shine so much they don't seem famous
Where'd you come from on this lonely night?
I swear God must have made lightning strike
And I bottled it up
You hit the red carpet and modeled it up
We hopped in the 'rari and throttled it up
Now everybody clappin', they bravoed it up
All just because it's more than a buzz
More than a drink, but I took a few sips
And let it do what it does
Now drunk textin'
Like its all about you
Like I can't spend another minute without you
You know the drinks let you say things you ain't allowed to
Things that you fear, but you're way to proud to
Say out loud
Cause niggas gonna clown you
Put your Blackberry down
People is around you
I'll put my mack berry down
I ain't tryin to hound you
Just tryin' to take you where the stars gonna surround you
And Uhmm, maybe ice down you
And Uhmm, maybe white gown you
And Uhmm, maybe we should talk about all this after I pound you
Ha, you know I'm just playin' with you
I know a lot of people mad cause they ain't with you
Wait is it because we on the moon
Tell 'em to save the hate we'll be home soon
[The-Dream]
There's something you do
That got me walkin on the moon
Uhh, and I know that its true
Baby, you got me walkin on the moon
Everyone out there will know that you are my girl


[Verse 1: Justin Bieber, Nicole Scherzinger, Jennifer Hudson, Jennifer Nettles, Josh Groban, Josh Groban, Tony Bennett, Mary J Blige]
There comes a time
When we heed a certain call
When the world must come together as one
There are people dying
And it's time to lend a hand to life
The greatest gift of all
We can't go on
Pretending day by day
That someone, somehow will soon make a change
We are all a part of
God's great big family
And the truth, you know love is all we need
[Hook: Michael Jackson & Janet Jackson, Barbra Streisand]
We are the world
We are the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we'll make a better day
Just you and me
[Verse 2: Miley Cyrus, Enrique Iglesias, Nicole Scherzinger, Jamie Foxx, Wyclef Jean, Adam Levine, Pink, BeBe Winans]
Well
Send them your heart
So they'll know that someone cares
So their cries for help
Will not be in vain
We can't let them suffer
No we cannot turn away
Right now they need a helping hand
Nou sé mond la
We are the Children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we'll make a better day
Just you and me
[Bridge: Michael Jackson, Usher, Celine Dion, Fergie]
When you're down and out
There seems no hope at all
But if you just believe
There's no way we can fall
Well, well, well, let us realize
That a change can only come
When we stand together as one
[Hook: All (+ Nick Jonas, Toni Braxton, Mary Mary, Tony Bennett, Isaac 
Slade
)]
We are the world
We are the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
Got to start giving
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we'll make a better day
Just you and me
We are the world
We are the children
It's for the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
[Bridge: Lil Wayne]
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we'll make a better day
Just you and me
[Hook: All (+ Akon, T-Pain)]
We are the world
We are the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we make a better day
Just you and me
We are the world
We are the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
[Jamie Foxx imitating Ray Charles]
Choice were making
Saving our own lives
It's true we'll make a better day
Just you and me
[Rapping: LL Cool J, Will.I.Am, Snoop Dogg, Busta Rhymes, Swizz Beatz]
We all need somebody that we can lean on
When you wake up look around and see that your dreams gone
When the earth quakes we'll help you make it through the storm
When the floor breaks a magic carpet to stand on
We are the World united by love so strong
When the radio isn't on you can hear the songs
A guided light on the dark road your walking on
A sign post to find the dreams you thought was gone
Someone to help you move the obstacles you stumbled on
Someone to help you rebuild after the rubble's gone
We are the World connected by a common bond
Love the whole planet sing it along
[Hook: All]
We are the world
We are the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we make a better day
Just you and me
[Kanye West]
Everyday citizens
Everybody pitching in
[Singing: Children & Wyclef Jean]
Nou sé mond la
Nou sé timoun yo
[Will.I.Am & Kanye West]
You and I
You and I
Uh, 12 days no water
What's your will to live?
We amplified the love we watching multiply
Feeling like the Worlds end
We can make the World win
Like Katrina, Africa, Indonesia
And now Haiti needs us, they need us, they need us
[Hook: All]
We are the world
We are the children
We are the ones who make a brighter day
So let's start giving
There's a choice we're making
We're saving our own lives
It's true we make a better day
Just you and me
[Outro: Wyclef Jean]
Haiti, Haiti, Ha, Ha, ha, ha, ha
Haiti, Haiti, Ha, Ha, ha, ha, ha
Haiti, Haiti, Ha, Ha, ha, ha, ha


[Kanye West]
("Make It Up")
 We can make it better
("Make It Up") We can make it better
("Make It Up") We can make it better
("Make It Up") We can make it
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Somebody told me that Delta's brownskinned, AKAs' lightskinned
And they supposed to be bougious, so they got white friends
First day of school, I'mma take you sight seein'
Show you what we do on weekends for excitement
She said, "I know what you about to say, like your hypeman"
Last year a nigga hit her, 
and now she only date white men
And if a nigga even wave at her, it's frightnin' but
[Hook: Kanye West]
("Make It Up") We can make it better
(Better we can)
("Make It Up") We can make it better
(Better we can make it on up, we can)
("Make It Up") We can make it better
(Better we can)
("Make It Up") We can make it
[Verse 2: Talib Kweli]
The night fallin' over Brooklyn
, 
where they murder for change
The converter remains faithful to the drugdealer priestess
He in search of the word of fame, you heard of the name
Kweli the truth, like I'm comin' out the mouths of babes
One foot in, one foot out the grave
Niggas want they reperations, How you calculate the amount to be paid
You try to imagine America without the slaves (the slaves)
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 3: Q-Tip]
Her tenament yo, is rat infested
Her heart is like a gold bullion cause she went and protested
Cause, her bestfriend's man got popped
He was sixteen years old, the cop thought his phone was a Glock
In the hood is a everday happenin'
In front of the precinct she chews out the captain
She yelled out "Why you do this to black men?"
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 4: Common]
I think of eighty seven ways
, 
to make better days
Whether crime or rhyme, I heard the rebel pays
On the scene, tryin' to get green like everglades
The music, ridin' it good like the Escalades
In the ghetto infested by shade and drama
And niggas wit' thangs ain't afraid of karma
I'm thinkin' big like Lil Wayne in The Carter
[Hook: Kanye West]
[Verse 5: Rhymefest]
C'mon; Tell people the truth, but never give 'em ya true thoughts
Terrorism on blacks, they poison our 
Newports
Partiot Act in effect, make it hard to breathe now
Johnnie Cochran dead, who gonna get us us free now?
Clinton ain't in office, who gon' give us shit free now?
Who gon' make it better for the thugs and Ps now?
Who gon' make it good for old folks that's senile?
Oh, it's good music, yeah dog I see now
[Hook: Kanye West]


[Bridge 1: Kanye West]
Everywhere I go I'm a star, I'm a star
Damn Kanye is that your car?
Evry-everywhere I go I'm a star, I'm a star
Damn Kanye is that your car?
[Hook 1: Kanye West]
Niggas reppin' the 'Go, but we can't tell
You claim you got hoes, nigga we can't tell
You claim you got dough, but we can't tell
You bought one pair of 1s at a two-for-one sale
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Politics kept me at the end of the mixtapes
So I dropped my own get-well-soon-from-sick tape
The drug game bulimic, it's hard to get weight
So niggas' money is homo, it's hard to get straight
I'm trying to do numbers like Pac did
But it ain't Shakur, it's the brand new Roc kid
Niggas wanna get me like they got Big
Cause I moved up out the city and got big
That's the poison, that runs through their veins and attack their soul and just start to tear em up
Niggas talk so much shit about me in barbershops they forget to get their hair cut
Ok fair enough, the streets is flarin' up
Cause they want gun talk, and I don't go there enough
But don't get it fucked up, you can still get your head bust
I'm making way too much dough to be playing
And this is a classic in the making, history repeats itself
He do the rhymes and the beats himself
The only-child syndrome, make hits on his own
And I'mma look in the mirror if I need some help
[Hook 2: Kanye West]
Ya'll bout to blow man, we can't tell
You claim you got hoes man, we can't tell
You niggas getting dough dawg, we can't tell
You copped one pair of 1s on a two-for-one sale
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Cop oz by the case like Dirty
I made it to the Power 30 a whole hour early
I'mma pull out the shank and bang ya
I'mma cut a nigga up like LL trainer
This is the future of the Chi
This is the legacy of Twista, ?the flick?, and Do or Die
So first of all who am I?
My-my my name is Kanye and not Kayne bitch
At home like ?Cambridge?, 
look at what I came with
No, none of that same shit, that new and improved
Now I don't know if it's me or how yellow my Roc-A-Fella chain is
But I'm ?so La? smooth there's nothing to prove
[Hook 3: Kanye West]
You niggas 'bout blow man, we can't tell
You claim you got hoes man, we can't tell
You niggas gettin dough dawg, we can't tell
You copped one pair of 1s at a two-for-one sale
[Bridge 2: Kanye West]
Everywhere I go I'm a star, I'm a star
Damn Kanye is that your car?
Now everywhere I go I'm a star
Damn Kanye is that your car?


[Produced by Kanye West]
[Intro]
Oh yeah, I've got the perfect song for the kids to sing
And all my people that's...
[Hook]
Drug dealin' just to get by
Stack ya' money 'til it get sky high
(Kids, sing! Kids, sing!)
We wasn't s'posed to make it past 25
Joke's on you, we still alive
Throw your hands up in the sky and say:
"We don't care what people say"
[Verse 1]
If this is your first time hearin' this
You are about to experience somethin' so cold, man
We never had nothin' handed, took nothin' for granted
Took nothin' from no man, man, I'm my own man
But as a shorty I looked up to the dopeman
Only adult man I knew that wasn't broke, man
Flickin' Starter coats, man
Man, you don't know, man
We don't care what people say
This is for my niggas outside all winter
Cause this summer they ain't finna say: "next summer I'm finna"
Sittin' in the hood like community colleges
This dope money here is Lil' Trey's scholarship
Cause ain't no tuition for having no ambition
And ain't no loans for sittin' your ass at home
So we forced to sell crack, rap, and get a job
You gotta do somethin' man, your ass is grown
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
The second verse is for my dogs workin' 9 to 5 that still hustle
Cause a nigga can't shine off $6.55
And everybody sellin' makeup, Jacob's
And bootlegged tapes just to get they cake up
We put shit on layaway, then come back
We claim other people kids on our income tax
We take that money, cop work, then push packs to get paid
And we don't care what people say
Momma say she wanna move South
Scratchin' lottery tickets, eyes on a new house
'Round the same time, Doe ran up in dude house
Couldn't get a job, so since he couldn't get work
He figured he'd take work
The drug game bulimic, it's hard to get weight
A nigga's money is homo, it's hard to get straight
But we gon' keep bakin' til the day we get cake
And "we don't care what people say"
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
You know the kids gon' act a fool
When you stop the programs for after-school
And they DCFS, some of 'em dyslexic
They favorite 50-Cent song "12 Questions"
We scream: "rocks, blow, weed, park", see, now we smart
We ain't retards, the way teachers thought
Hold up, hold fast, we make more cash
Now tell my momma I belong in that slow class
Sad enough we on welfare
They tryna put me on the school bus with the space for the wheelchair
I'm tryna get the car with the chromie wheels here
They tryna cut our lights out like we don't live here
Look what was handed us, fathers abandoned us
When we get them hammers, go on, call the ambulance
Sometimes I feel no one in this world understands us
But "we don't care what people say"
My niggas
[Hook]


[Kanye West]
I'd rather just let the [
?
] speak for itself. You know, it's like, I was happy to be in a situation where people couldn't say, oh, I was trying to promote my own song. For the times that I've, like, defended myself...
I'm pushing the envelope! 
I wrote my fuckin' 
 verse for a fuckin' month!
 
When I heard Eminem's verse on the Drake shit, I went back and rewrote my shit for two days.
 I canceled appointments to rewrite! I fuckin' care! You know what I'm saying? And that's what I'm saying. 
Because I did that, Taylor Swift cannot win over Beyoncé! Because I wrote my verse in two days, Taylor Swift cannot beat Beyoncé.
 As long as I'm alive! And if I'm alive, kill me then! Kill me then! As long as I'm alive, you gon' have to deal with it. 
Cause there ain't gonna be no more motherfucking Elvises with no James Browns
[Female voice]
Why are you so angry? What's the anger?
[Kanye West]
Because my mother got arrested for the fuckin' sit-ins.
 My mother died for this fame shit! I moved to fuckin' Hollywood chasing this shit. My mother died because of this shit. Fuck MTV
It ain't no love. What the fuck was Pink performing? Don't nobody know that song. Pink performed twice! Two songs?
 
How the fuck Pink perform two songs and I didn't even get asked to perform "Heartless." "Heartless" is the biggest song of the year! It had the most spins of the first quarter!
 
I don't know that Pink song! But I noticed that she's pink! They put me in a fuckin' room and projected it
[Male voice]
How the fuck did Eminem get the Best Hip-Hop song in 2008?
[Kanye West]
Eminem won Best Video! Rap Video! Yo, when he won that shit, I was so happy. I was so happy I ran all this shit. I said, "Nigga, I'm gon' do this until y'all put a bullet in my head. I'm runnin' up to y'all, put a..." [tape cuts]


[Verse One: Kanye West]
Hip hop, uh
When I fight you fight
We don't fight fair
So I guess I'll See You In My Nightmares
Just remember I made you like my Nike Air
Ye... Yeezys
Please be easy
To kill the animosity that's in the air
I'll touch every curve of your body like a Herve Leger
And this wasn't no ordinary love
Our sex wasn't ordinary drugs
It's that crack, that crystal meth
I mean it gets so wet, I had to go in depth
I mean the bitch so fresh I had to go in debt
Ru-running my credit card till there's no more left
Uh but that's cool, you wife and I'll be groom
I thought I had a sign a Seal like Heidi Klum
Like Jay and B
Like Chris and Ri
But this Christmas you'll be missin' me
[Verse Two: Q-Tip]
He walks outside for a cigarette break
And thinks how many cigarettes does it take
He takes a long drag with the sun in his eye
He squints, he thinks, he starts to sigh
Sometimes he cry
When he thinks about his girlfriend on his side
She held him down
She made him better
She fought for love fucked up weather
And she thinkin' about the life
With no more work just being the wife
But instead, her love she gave it to a man
Who fought against her lovely plans
So when she goes to work
Plus go to school
Plus fight for love she must feel like a fool
She want the ease to come after pain
She fights for love that's her campaign
[Hook]
[Verse Three: Consequence]
Word word yo
I try to stick it out with her through thick and thin
So whether she was thick or thin I was still stickin' in
But like when I left shorty with the rest of my friends
I guess all good things had to come to an end
Instead of moving forward she rather pretend
Because like a tattoo artist
I get under her skin
So she hatin' on the kid
And its plain to see
I got her punchin' at the screen
Like she playin' the Wii
She only think about me when her cash is low
And she heard my name brought up by them classy hoes
Cause she at the same nail shop where Cassie goes
And she up in the club where Vashtie goes
And it start to drive her 
nuts like pistachios
Cause I guess the g shocked her like a Casio
Then you shot yourself in the foot like Plaxico
And that's too much drama so you had to go


[Ma$e]
This is a classic, just add this to the rest of them
[Hook 2X: Ma$e] + (Kanye West)
See I know what you all like
That's why it's goin' to be alright
Everything is all night
(See what my face felt, know how Ma$e felt, c'mon her ya John Legend)
Harlem back be alright, Fo' Reel be alright, Ma$e is back be alright
[Kanye]
Ma$e said c'mon, Mike said chamone
Started up early like Raven-Symoné
Keisha Knight-Pull
, 
Emmanuel
I dropped out of school with no manual
Nothin' handed to dude but did I complain
Every time magazines try to taint my name
But ya'll can't hold me down like restraint
I took the T off out the word can't
'round same time when Nas said I can
Bush for sendin' our fam to Iran
I'm in the club with a henny ass in my other hand
Lord please forgive me, I'm just a man
Right now I'm trying to make some adjustments
Before they do me like they did Janet and Just' and 'em
Me and my cuz and them
Trying to rap like bust and them
And my clothes was busted and bummy
But I ain't eva, eva, accept no money from these so called sponsors
They was in Benzes, I was in Hondas
Now I wonder where they all at like Ananda
Hmm... yea... that something to ponder
The money I make on this one's for Donda
That's West to you, you the next
I can't hold my breath for you
What you need to do is turn it up some decibels
And put some more zeroes in front of that decimal, nigga
[Hook]
[Ma$e]
Arm frozen on, diamonds and all
Maserati, Bugatti that rode in on
Different color Louis open toes and all
I try to tell the chick don't expose it all
Country dudes mouth full of gold and all
Bay area chick, cornrows and all
I do it right, I do my wife
I leave the hoes for y'all
From the boutique, I might close the mall
I drink my Geico and turn it Gecko
I wave the Roley, you wave the Seiko, need I say mo'
More diamond than LisaRaye
I'm no replica, I am the DNA
Breeze cool, leave you like a hurricane
Somebody get killed, the whole borough blame
M.A. dollar, what a thorough name
No matter who comes through, I'm forever the king
I shoulda neva left the game, that's what a cutie said
Still chicks throwin' me up like newly wed
I'm grown and sexy, done with the groupie head
In the milk white Phantom seats, and ruby red
You heard the rumor, listen to the facts
I drop my cars in pairs like pitty pat
When I'm done with this track, it feel like biggie back
The game is country
I came to bring the city back
I came, I came to bring the city back
[Hook]
[Outro: Ma$e]
Fo Reel put your hands up
Good Music put your hands up
Bad Boy put your hans up
Rocafella put your hands up
Chi-town put your hands up
NY put your hands up
Miami put your hands up
Texas put hands up


[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
My friend showed me pictures of his kids
And all I could show him was pictures of my cribs
He said his daughter got a brand new report card
And all I got was a brand new sports car, oh
[Hook - Kid CuDi]
And my head keeps spinning
Can't stop having these visions, I gotta get with it
And my head keeps spinning
I can't stop having these visions, I gotta get with it
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
Dad cracked a joke, all the kids laughed
But I couldn't hear him all the way in first class
Chased the good life my whole life long
Look back on my life and my life gone
Where did I go wrong?
[Hook]
[Interlude - Kanye West]
I've seen it, I've seen it before
I've seen it, I've seen it before
I've seen it, I've seen it before
I've seen it, I've seen it before
[Verse 3 - Kanye West]
My god-sister getting married by the lake
But I couldn't figure out who I'd wanna take
Bad enough that I showed up late
I had to leave before they even cut the cake
Welcome to heartbreak
[Hook]
[Outro - Kanye West]
And I and I can't stop
No, no, I can't stop
No, no, no, no, I can't stop
No, no, no, no, I can't stop
Can't stop, I can't stop, I can't stop
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
No, no, no, no
No, no, I can't stop
I can't stop having these visions
I gotta get with it


[Produced By: Swizz Beatz]
[Intro: Swizz and Kanye]
Welcome to the jungle, welcome to the jungle well
(I asked her where she wanna be when she 25
She turned around and looked at me and said “alive”)
Welcome to the jungle, welcome to the jungle well
[Jay-Z]
Black Axl Rose,
 
move halfs and wholes
Come down to the jungle, just ask for Hov
Move blocks and squares,
 
move apples and pears
Work pots and pans, just to cop me some Airs
My uncle died, my daddy did too
Paralyzed by the pain, I can barely move
My nephew gone, my heart is torn
Sometimes I look to the sky, ask why I was born
My faith in God, every day is hard
Every night is worse, that’s why I pray so hard
[Kanye West]
Why I pray so hard, this is crazy God
Just when I thought I had everything, I lost it all
So que será,
 
get a case of Syrah
Let it chase the pain,
 
before it goes too far
[Jay-Z]
My dreams is big, reality set in
Let off a clip from a automatic weapon
Through shots in the door, it died in Vegas
Though it fought so hard, I knew it wouldn’t make it
I’m a tortured soul, I live in disguise
Rest in peace to the leader of the Jackson 5
I died in my sleep, I’m still Big Pimpin'
I ball at the mall
, 
beginning of the ending
Where the fuck is the sun? It’s been a while
Momma, look at ya son, what happened to my smile?
My tears is tatted,
 
my rag in my pocket
I’m just looking for love, I know somebody got it
Champagne for the pain, weed for the low
Goddamn I’m so high, where the fuck did I go?
I’m losing myself, I’m stuck in the moment
I look in the mirror, my only opponent
Where the fuck is the press? Where the fuck is the Pres?
Either they know or don’t care, I’m fucking depressed
No crying in public, just lying to judges
Risking my life, I’m already dying, so fuck it well
[Outro: Swizz]
Welcome to the jungle, welcome to the jungle well, 
goddammit


[Produced by Dave Tozer, Jeff Bhasker, Kanye West & Travis Scott]
[Seal]
Come sweetly, stab me through the shadow of an open door
Wait quietly now, take us to the helplessness of it all
And I wonder as I watch you slip away somehow
Wonder if the only thing left is love
Wonder if I ever will wait
[Hook]
Will I ever love again?
Will I ever love again?
[John Legend]
Oh, lie to me
Lie to me, tell me I'm not wasting time
Yeah, yeah
Oh, oh, convince me you miss me
Your heart still beats as fast as mine
Tell me lies
We loved it, loved it even more than we knew
We lost it, and I don't even know what to do
Tell me what to do
Cause I wonder why it had to slip away somehow
I wonder if you'll ever wanna see me now
I wonder if I'll ever be the same
[Hook]
[Bridge]
Oh, you eyes haunt me, taunt me, pierce straight through my heart again
Will it ever end?
Cause I
[Seal + John Legend]
Wonder as I watch you slip away somehow
I wonder if you ever wanna see me now
I wonder if I'll ever wait
[Hook]


[Produced by Jon Brion, Kanye West & Warryn Campbell]
[Hook: Really Doe]
You muh'fuckers better do your job and roll up,
 
and watch how we roll up
An', I can't 
 
it, I can't hold it,
 
it's so nuts
I take a sip of that 'gnac,
 
I wanna fuck
I take a hit of that chronic,
 
it got me stuck
But really what's amazin is how I keep blazin'
Towel under the door,
 
We smoke until the day's end
Puff puff and pass, don't fuck up rotation
Hpnotiq
 
for Henny?
 
Now nigga that's a chaser
Turn nuttin to somethin, now pimpin that's a savior
Best things are green now pimpin get your paper
High off the ground from stair to skyscraper
Cool out, thinkin we local c'mon homey we major
[
]
We major? C'mon homey we major
We major? C'mon homey we major
We major, c'mon homey we major
We major, c'mon
[Verse 1: Kanye 
]
Feelin better than some head on a Sunday afternoon
Better than a chick that say yes too soon
Until you have a daughter that's what I call karma
And you pray to God she don't grow breasts too soon
Projects to' up, gang signs is thrown up
Niggas hats broke off, that's how we grow up
Why else you think shorties write rhymes just to blow up?
Get they first car and then IRS show up
He ain't never had shit, but he had that 9
Nigga come through flickin and he had that shine
Put 2 and 2 together and a little bad weather
Gon' be your whole family on that funeral line
Asked the reverend was the strip clubs cool
If my tips helped send a pretty girl through school
That's all I want, like winos want they good whiskey
I ain't in the Klan but I brought my hood with me
[Hook]
[Nas]
We major? C'mon homey we major
We major? C'mon homey we major
We major! C'mon homey we major
We major! C'mon homey we major
[Verse 2: Nas]
I heard the beat and I ain't know what to write
First line should it be about the hoes or the ice?
Fo-fo's or Black Christ? Both flows'd be nice
Rap about big paper or the black man plight
At the studio console, asked my man to the right
What this verse sound like,
 
should I freestyle or write?
He said, "Nas what the fans want is Illmatic, Stillmatic"
Looked at the pad and pen, fell, and jotted what I feel
Been like twelve years since a nigga first signed
Now I'm a free agent and I'm thinkin it's time
To build my very own Motown
Cause rappers be deprived, of executive 9 to 5's
And it hurts to see these companies be stealin the life
And I love to give my blood sweat and tears to the mic
So y'all copped the LP's and y'all fiends got dealt
I'm Jesse Jackson on the balcony when King got killed
I survived the livest niggas around
Last longer than more than half of you clowns
Look, I used to cook before I had the game took
Either way my change came like Sam Cooke
[Tony Williams]
Feeling better than I ever felt before today
Like better late than never is orientation
Still we can make it better throwing all your cares away
[Hook]
[Tony Williams]
Feeling better than I ever felt before today
But 
better late than never, it's
Orien-tation
, still we can make it better
Throwin all your cares away
[Hook]
[Kanye] + (Nas)
We major? (C'mon homey we major)
We MAJOR?! (C'mon homey we major)
We major (C'mon homey we major)
We major
[Tony Williams]
Feeling better than I ever felt before today
But better late than never, it's
Orien-tation, still we can make it better
Throwin all your cares away
[Music starts to fade until 5:21 in the song]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Can I talk my shit again?
Can I talk my shit again?!
I can't believe I'm back up in this muh'fucker
I'mma be late though
I gotta figure out what I'm gonna wear
Yeah... the Roc is definitely in the building
GOOD Music's definitely in the building
I gotta say what's up to Tony Williams
On the vocals sings, he sings quite beautifully
Don't you agree? Don't you agree?
Uhh, and Jon Brion on the keys right now
And Warren Campbell on the keys right now
So they ask me - why you call it 
 'Ye?
Cause we takin these muh'fuckers back to school
If you know this part right here, feel free to sing along
[Outro: Tony Williams] + (Kanye West)
Feeling better than I ever felt before today (If you feelin good)
But better late than never; it's orien-tation (It's orientation)
Still we can make it better
Throwin all your cares away... (We want you to get used to this)
(Uhh, they cain't do what we do baby)
(Uh-uh, uh-uh, they cain't do what we do baby)
(Uh-uh, uh-uh, they cain't do what we do baby)
(Yeah...)


[Intro - Big Sean]
Ay, Big!
They say they want something real
Thats what I’mma give em
And if I keep it real how could they not feel it
Hey yeah
Can you say GOOD music?
Can you say GOOD music?
[Verse 1]
Let me tell you about a bad ass chick
Everybody wanna grab her
Tryna climb on that looking for a ladder
Niggas wanna stab her, dag her, dag it
Everybody want it
Ain't too many had it
Beauty and brains, went to all the classes
Graduated too even went and got a masters
Bad ass chick probably could have been an actress
So what she do?
She want to be an actress
Moved to Manhatton, shit got real
Took acting classes with Denzel
Leading lady like Hillary grabbing big Bills
Commercial money baby, ten thousand and a mill
Yeah, plus she had a baby boy
And the nigga she was with she couldn’t love more
Still want more, shit, she on a roll
Move to Hollywood, she could probably get a role
And she did, but realised the nigga wasn’t shit
Addicted to the broads and on top of this she pregnant
With another boy
Honestly thought abort but still had the boy
Lets name him Sean
Honestly probably after Connery
One of her favourite actors but acting ain't promising
Ay yo I know there was certain things that was meant for you
And thats why I’m giving you
[Hook]
(Whatever you want)
This whatever you want
(Before)
Just tell me
(Whatever you want)
You deserve whatever you want
(Before)
I won’t stop till you get whatever you want
(All the lights)
All the lights
(The love, dreams you blew away
For your baby boy
Hold on, I'm on my way
(whatever you want)


[Kanye West]
Okay, G.O.O.D. Music has arrived
You and your girls can finally get live
I'mma need you to turn the lights down
Whatever gon happen gon happen right now
Do whatever you want
Whatever you want
[Consequence]
Baby let me get the number to your blackberry curve
So I can buy you everything that you deserve
I ain't gotta front mama that's my word
With that kinda ass I might spaz like N.E.R.D
And buy whatever you want
Whatever you want
[Kanye West]
Now I need you to leave home any inhibitions
I promise you, won't be any intermissions
What's up with your home girl, I'm so persistent
We need an assistant, I'm just kidding
Whatever you want
Whatever you want
[Consequence]
The number one team is back it ain't fair
And if you feel the same, raise you glass in the air
I like the pack Jordans that come with the wack pair
Y'all really don't want it and we're making that clear
So do whatever you want
Put you hands in the air
Wave them around like you just don't care
And once you're done with that, keep your hands up high
If you're with your girls let me see you get live
And whatever you want
[Hook: John Legend]
Hey girl, we gon live it up tonight
Hey girl, welcome to the Grammy life
Hey girl, you know how this goes
If you all, centerfolds, is all I know
Whatever you want
[Kanye West]
Now when everybody way too aggressive
I'mma be the one to cool to even stress it
Even though I bought dresses, breasts, Benz's, Lexus
Yeah, you get the message
Whatever you want
Whatever you want
[Consequence]
So don't be shy baby pick a handbag
And the shoes to match that'll really get them mad
And don't worry about it cause I'm picking up the tab
Cause nothing gets the girls like a little bit of cash
Or whatever they want
[Hook]


[Kanye West] [x4]
G.O.O.D. Music has arrived
[Kid Cudi] [x3]
I said its time to put your hands in the air
And wave them around like 
you
 just don't care
Yeah
Okay, Mr. Moon Man, has arrived
And to them lame niggas keep the middle finger high
I'm kinda like my mind, would you mind if we fly
Not rhymin' in metaphor, talkin 'bout G4
But
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Common]
Whatever you want, you could quit your day job
You could be my Kate, I could be your A-Rod
Christian Louboutin, ma telling you could model
Not you, a Real Housewife of Chicago
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Big Sean]
Yeah, B-I, G, look
To all the Halle Berrys and the younger Tony Braxtons
It's time to cut, glad you made the casting
Look at my jewelry, damn that shit's flashin'
Not only do I love it, I love it with a passion
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Kanye West]
Ayo I pull up in the, errr umm, Benz
And the girls say, "Ahh", like they imitatin' Prince
Okay, when I circle the block, hop in
Me, you and your friends
That's a win win win
Do whatever you
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Consequence]
Ladies this is in your best interest like a feminist
If going out with him don't come with benefits
Then why would you even wanna reminisce?
When you could apply in time for a membership
And get whatever you want, want, want, want, want
[Kanye West]
Now its time to put your hands in the air
And wave them around like you just don't care
[Consequence]
And once your done with that keep your hands up high
And if you with your girl let me see you get live
[John Legend]
Hey girl, we 'gon live it up tonight
Hey girl, welcome to the grammy life
Hey girl, you know how this goes
Doesn't get old, centerfold
Is all I know
Whatever you want
[Consequence]
You would think I would recycle by the way I found my last chick
Cause all she want is paper or plastic
And won't be happy until she find herself a draft pick
Or a D-boy with money in the mattress
So raise up your glasses
And lets toast to the good life
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Big Sean]
So go ahead, you can drink whatever that you like to
Champagne, Remy, or a little bit of Sky Blu
Yeah we up in VI, I'm right beside you
Scream like you like to
You're lucky that I like you
So get what you want to
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Common]
Whatever you want, you know that I want you
Be my turntable, lemme spin somethin' on you
It's the good life, that I wanna loan you
You know what its like for you to come home to
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Kanye West]
Now as soon as I change up
Everybody else tryna step they game up
Won't they, don't they, will they, nah
Still niggas feel Ye
So do whatever y'all want, whats the deal, eh?
[Hook]
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
Whatever you want, want, want, want, want, want, want
[Kid Cudi]
I see them hoes over there they ain't you
And all the superficials want to trade your shoes
I see and never mind everything they might say
Baby girl sex good as well as the BJs
And a nigga can't front
[John Legend]
Hey girl, we gon live it up tonight
Hey girl, welcome to the Grammy life
Hey girl, you know hows this goes
Doesn't get old, centerfold
Is all I know
Whatever you want
La la la la
Whatever you want
La la la la la la
La la la la


[Produced by Dave Tozer, Kanye West, Ken Lewis & The Twilite Tone]
[Verse]
What if I told you
The dreams on the other side
The dreams on the other side
Go there with me tonight


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Uh, I don't need no little ass
I need a ghetto ass girl
With a car that can make it 'cross town with just a little gas
I know when we first met, you was a little gassed
But you want to keep your swag
So you was holding back
Your little brother love me
He say, "Yeezy got some fresh clothes"
Your grandmother love me
Cause I always dress in dress clothes
I can switch your dress code
Change your life like, "presto"
I am like that Aston Martin engine, you just press "go"
Why you acting like you ain't impressed for
Oh, see why you listen to the press though?
I ain't finna explain my life up on no Larry King
Cause when I show her that thing
She said, "that explains everything"
Everything
That just changed everything
Yeezy on her name ring
Yeezy where her chain bling
Yeah, I throw Barack up, but
Baby, you get my vote
Love a ghetto girl with more ass than the models
[Bridge: Kanye West]
See, see, see I did the screwed up shit myself
I ain't put no affect, no
You know
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Ay, ay, ay gonna thump 'm thump
When I thump I'm thumpin' on the old game
I can thump, thump, do some, something 'till they sold me
Turn that bitch to a Soul Train
I'll get a thump with the old stain
Want to just slap that cocaine
Like a cold king, someone who just sound like, "okay"
Okay, I get it, I pound it, I spit it, now I'm throwin' up
I'm gonna, wanna something, 'till I got my moana
And then I'm gonna....


[Produced by Kanye West and No I.D.]
[Verse 1]
What we talking bout? Real shit or we talking 'bout rhymes?
You talking 'bout millions or you talking 'bout mine?
What we talking 'bout, cause I ain't got time
For what people be talking 'bout all the time
What we talking 'bout fiction or we talking 'bout fact?
You talking 'bout fiction? Hold up, pardon my back
I'm talking 'bout life and all I hear is:
"Oh yeah he keeps talking 'bout crack"
I ain't talking 'bout profit, I'm talking 'bout pain
I'm talking 'bout despair, I'm talking 'bout shame
I ain't talking 'bout gossip, I ain't talking 'bout Game
I ain't talkin bout Jimmy, I ain't talking 'bout Dame
I'm talking 'bout real shit, them people playin'
What is you talking 'bout? I don't know what y'all sayin'
People keep talking 'bout "Hov take it back"
I'm doin' better than before, why would I do that?
Ain't nothing cool about carrying a strap
Bout worrying your moms and burying your best cat
Talking 'bout revenge while carrying his casket
All teary-eyed, bout to take it to a mattress
I'm talking 'bout music, I ain't talking 'bout rap
You talking 'bout who's hot - I ain't talking 'bout that
The conversation is changed, let's yap about that
I don't run rap no more, I run the map
[Hook]
They talk, we live, we see what they say
They talk, We did, who cares what they say
[Verse 2]
Still they can't' focus on them, they be talking 'bout me
Talking 'bout what I wear, talking 'bout where I be
Check out my hair: these ain't curls these is peas
"Peasey head" still get paid, I'm combin' through G's
Please, we ain't focused on naps
Cause I don't run rap no more, I run the map
A small part of the reason the President is black
I told him I got him when he hit me on the jack
Talking 'bout progress, I ain't lookin' back
You know I run track - try not to get lapped
People keep talking 'bout Hov left em flat
Try to re-write history, let's talk about facts
Dame made millions, even Jaz made some scraps
He could've made more but he ain't sign his contract
As far as street guys, we was dealing crack
That's just how the game goes, I don't owe nobody jack
Grown men want me to sit em on my lap
But I don't have a beard and Santa Claus ain't black
I repeat, you can't sit on my lap
I don't have a beard now get off my sack
Scream at me
[Hook]
[Verse 3]
Blueprint 3
And now that that's that, let's talk about the future
We have just seen the dream as predicted by Martin Luther
Now you could choose to sit in front of your computer
Posing with guns, shooting YouTube up
Or you could come with me to the White House - get your suit up
You stuck on being hardcore, I 
chuck the deuce up
Peace out 
Medusa
Welcome to the Blue-ah-Print-ah
Tre-piece, 
Jay-Z your tutor
Tooter of my own horn beep beep
 
moo-ya
Ras clot when rude boy come through with the roof up
So I could see the sky
Cause everybody talking, Hov I think we know why


[Intro]
That girl looking good over there man. What should I do?
[Kanye]
It's your big brother Kanye To The. And I know how you feel about shawty. Man, I was going through the same thing when I was your age
[Young Leek]
I got you
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
I'm just saying
This is where you should be
Girl let him know that he alright but
You wanna rock with me
Let it go
Come and let me
Give you what you need
Come and let me
Give you what you need
Girl don't play
Send him on his way
Come ride with me
[Verse Two: Kanye West]
And the party was just so tense is
But all this waiting around is just so senseless
And I've been calling her phone so relentless
Mama said the phone bill was so expensive
Your eyes slanted like Lucy Liu
You're frank couture to the juicy suit
Your lips sweater than a Juicy Fruit
From your Louie Vuitton bag to your Gucci boots
Whether we on a train or a two seat Coupe
I'mma fiend for you like Pookie do
I was there with [?] Whoopty Woo
She was there with her man, some goofy dude
And I ain't really trying to be rude to dude
All I need is a change to advance, take my hand
Understand from a dance I could end up your man
If I'd been scared wouldn't have seen her again
Oh
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Yeah, yeah - I used to front when I write songs
Talk about havin ice on, and I could barely keep my lights on
And my beats was so sick, I shoulda got a medic
But my credit was so pathetic I couldn't afford a debit
When 
 dropped, I had to cop me a money tree
To front on anybody who ever tried to front on me
With so much personality, what do you want from me?
I could be by myself and enjoy the company
My life, this year, my career, is the Lord
Bad chick, this award, is for Melyssa Ford
'94 I could only afford this Accord
From the home of gangbangin
 and we all outdoors
Southside, outside, Westside, let's ride
Eastside, right B-Side
, 
Lakeshore Drive
And I'm (and I'm) Chi-Town's finest
Where you at?
 The whole city behind us
[Hook: Kanye West]
Where you at? The whole city behind us
Where you at? The whole city behind us
Southside, outside, Westside, let's ride
Where you at? The whole city behind us
[Verse 2: Ludacris]
It ain't nuttin to it but to do it! 
I came here
To shut the place down 'til my body stops pumpin red fluid
A-Town I've been through it!
 
And we steady gettin tested
But ready to fill your bubble when we put the lead to it
Out West they still bangin, up top it's really gully
Down South we get buck and turn hearts to Silly Putty
Ludacris I got silly money - you got jokes?
I'll be laughin all the way to the bank - now that's really funny!
Big city bright lights - and many pity cause we like fights
May be long days but it's fright nights
Living out the night life - and people asking 'Where You At?'
Not the club; I stay in the get right!
Hotlanta home of the booties and the really tight skirts
Where if somebody moves then somebody gets hurt!
From Decatur down to CP, and EP
Adamsville to the battlefield it's D.T.P
[Hook]
[Verse 3: The-Game]
It's Compton's prodigy
Obviously I'm from the home of hydraulics
Where they tie bandanas around the steerin column
Of Impalas in to get holla
We fightin pitbulls and Rottweilers
In the projects the objective is make dollars
'Where You At?' It ain't a problem to get it there by tomorrow
Cause I got a female friend, with frequent flier mileage
I ain't never been to college, got the IQ of a Rhodes Scholar
If you follow G-Unit throw up your dubs and yell holla
To all the 
Y.G.s
 
in khakis and white tees
With And 1's in every color like Ice-T
I might be the city of Compton's right knee
The way I paint pictures with these hip-hop scriptures
Pay attention while The Game shine like a prism
Glisten, show you how canaries can alter one's vision
Not to mention I am Dr. Dre christened 
on behalf
Of Luda and Kanyeezy, I'm gon' breathe easy
[Hook] - repeat 2X


[Produced by RZA and Kanye West]
[Hook]
Just me and you girl
Wooooaah ohhh
Just me and you girl
Wooooaah ohhh
[Verse 1]
Trying to sneak upstairs to your apartment
Aren't you a sight for red eyes
I just flew in and slipped in on your left side
Just a satin gown, you asleep with no make-up
I'm just tryna be inside you 'fore you wake up
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
We had problems but it's all in the past
Everybody got problems baby, algebra class
Remember I used to do things that'd make you laugh
Like orderin' a girl drink in a masculine glass
You like piña coladas, getting caught in the rain
Or rocking flannels all summer like Kurt Cobain
Or that Dolce Gabbana with a few gold chains
And you the type of girl that probably deserve a new last name
But, they never let us do our thing
Everybody lying on who I bang
We was on fire but they blew our flame
Ain't no denying baby you have changed
Cause now your high heels clicking, your lip gloss glisten
Your hips start switching, you're pissed off, tripping
Cause even when we're kissing baby girl feel different
Friends all diss him like, "No he didn't?
No he didn't, is you talking about Kitten?
Is that bitch still stripping?
Trying to get a pair of Christians?"
I swear to God that they got you going crazy
But you play it off and say, "How is work baby?"
Well some of the models is too coked up to walk straight
But seem to still love the man that they all hate
But babe I call you back and say that you say that always
And kept me on the phone and demanded they all wait
See, she knew about all my lies the whole time
And my credit's so bad I can't get no one to cosign
I would've thought she would've bust in the door cryin'
But she upped and left a nigga and she ain't give me no sign
Now, she back in the club in a tight dress
With dreams of someday wearing a white dress
Seen with some lame, it's a miracle that she'd
Talk to a nigga with a ten-year ago swag
Plus I don't like none of her girlfriends
Quote unquote, "Cause her girlfriends got girlfriends."
On the phone, hollin' that "niggas is whatever"
Let's fly to Euro and make this the best summer ever
Now she heading to Rome, Rome is the home
Rome is where she act like she ain't got no fucking phone
I accept that I was wrong, except a nigga grown
So I can't bitch and moan, in a session gettin' stoned
So a nigga had to hop on a plane
A bus and a train, to try to come and talk and explain
Rented the whole bottom floor for a candlelight dinner
Turned the lights out and put my candle right in her
And told her, "Even though I met you in a club in a tight dress
At first sight I could picture you in a white dress."
Thirty foot train,
 
diamond from Lorraine
Just to make up for all the years and the pain
Family on both sides, I'm so glad you came
Aunty couldn't make it, oh no that's a shame
Wedding in June, what could be better?
Let's fly to Euro, make this the best summer ever
Take the very last car of the Eurostar
Tell the conductor, "Just drive so far."
Told some of your friends and they wasn't excited
Well we gon' tour the countryside and they won't be invited
We will not be disturbed by the fussin' and fighting
Tell Peaches light the herb cause we just reunited
Let's make a move from these herds, go somewhere in private
I'm talking just me and you and the plane and the pilot
[Hook]


[Hook: Tru James]
Just me and you girl
Wooooaah ohhh
Just me and you girl
Wooooaah ohhh
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Trying to sneak upstairs to your apartment
Aren't you a sight for red eyes
I just flew in and slipped in on your left side
Just a satin gown, you asleep with no make-up
I'm just tryna be inside you 'fore you wake up
[Hook: Tru James]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
We had problems but it's all in the past
Everybody got problems baby, algebra class
Remember I used to do things that'd make you laugh
Like orderin' a girl drink in a masculine glass
You like piña coladas, getting caught in the rain
Or rocking flannels all summer like Kurt Cobain
Or that Dolce Gabbana with a few gold chains
And you the type of girl that probably deserve a new last name
But, they never let us do our thing
Everybody lying on who I bang
We was on fire but they blew our flame
Ain't no denying baby you have changed
Cause now your high heels clicking, your lip gloss glisten
Your hips start switching, you're pissed off, tripping
Cause even when we're kissing baby girl feel different
Friends all diss him like, "No he didn't?
No he didn't, is you talking about Kitten?
Is that bitch still stripping?
Trying to get a pair of Christians?"
I swear to God that they got you going crazy
But you play it off and say, "How is work baby?"
Well some of the models is too coked up to walk straight
But seem to still love the man that they all hate
But babe I call you back and say that you say that always
And kept me on the phone and demanded they all wait
See, she knew about all my lies the whole time
And my credit's so bad I can't get no one to cosign
I would've thought she would've bust in the door cryin'
But she upped and left a nigga and she ain't give me no sign
Now, she back in the club in a tight dress
With dreams of someday wearing a white dress
Seen with some lame, it's a miracle that she'd
Talk to a nigga with a ten-year ago swag
Plus I don't like none of her girlfriends
Quote unquote, "Cause her girlfriends got girlfriends."
On the phone, hollin' that "niggas is whatever"
Let's fly to Euro and make this the best summer ever
Now she heading to Rome, Rome is the home
Rome is where she act like she ain't got no fucking phone
I accept that I was wrong, except a nigga grown
So I can't bitch and moan, in a session gettin' stoned
So a nigga had to hop on a plane
A bus and a train, to try to come and talk and explain
Rented the whole bottom floor for a candlelight dinner
Turned the lights out and put my candle right in her
And told her, "Even though I met you in a club in a tight dress
At first sight I could picture you in a white dress."
Thirty foot train, diamond from Lorraine
Just to make up for all the years and the pain
Family on both sides, I'm so glad you came
Aunty couldn't make it, oh no that's a shame
Wedding in June, what could be better?
Let's fly to Euro, make this the best summer ever
Take the very last car of the Eurostar
Tell the conductor, "Just drive so far."
Told some of your friends and they wasn't excited
Well we gon' tour the countryside and they won't be invited
We will not be disturbed by the fussin' and fighting
Tell Peaches light the herb cause we just reunited
Let's make a move from these herds, go somewhere in private
I'm talking just me and you and the plane and the pilot
[Hook: Tru James]


[T.I]
Yeah, Hey 'Ye
Why don’t you let me welcome the niggas to the World they ain't welcome to
You understand?
It bring me great pleasure to welcome the real and banish the fake
No big mouth ho cake, fake beta ass niggas allowed
But to everybody else
[Bridge: Kanye West (T.I.)]
I would like to welcome (you)
To the World of (world of)
Fast money, fast cars, big diamond rings
Thick Chains and the girls of (girls of)
Fake smiles, broken hearts
 
and if you looking
For your real love
You won't find it here
If you looking for your real love
Well goodnight my dear
[Hook: Kid Cudi]
Oooh, if you looking for real love
Don’t come around here
Oooh, if you looking for love
It ain't here my dear
Mmmmm mmmmmh
Move on
[Verse 1: T.I]
It’s my pleasure to welcome you to the World of
Fast money, flashy cars, big guns
Undone, threw away for the love of
The game, I don't need a chain or the fame, still shine
Spend time with the girls of
Fake smiles, broken hearts trying hard in the club looking for
Her real love
You won’t find it here
All I got is hard dick and conversation for you
I was just high, even lying when I say I love you
My mind saying it were both
I just wanna fuck you, her too
Blowing Lyle
 
smelling like a
 
bubba kush perfume
She coming home with me, she finna meet her doom
She ain't saying I’m the greatest finna change her tune
The coldest and the hottest call me December June
Deliver euphoria straight to your room
I hit that ass, and away, I zoom
Make it rain nonstop call me Young Typhoon
Top spot already filled up no room
Throw down for some paper and your purse so soon?
Well wrong she is and mistaken she was
Tip broke, never heard such thing of
I’ll fuck you up, don’t touch me cause
Just trust me bruh, It must be
Li-li-li-living my dreams
Don't wake me up
Yo-yo-you fake it till you make it, must suck
All th-th-the haters hate us for the flav of the paper
Th-th-thats why I can't love my neighbors
Da-da-dangerous
, 
stalk, kick, cut you
If you ain't welcome in my world bitch fuck you
Da-da-dangerous, stalk, kick, cut you
You ain't welcome in my world bitch fuck you
[Bridge: Kanye West (T.I.)]
[Hook: Kid Cudi]
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
I would like to welcome you to the world of
Fake bitches no love, what the fuck you take me for
Show love,
 
I hate haters in the club
You must not really know where I come from
Exactly where my heart or you would never never NEVER
UGH, where do I start?
 
people ask me shit about Illuminati
First off, fuck that mean?!
He loved Jesus when he he he was worse off
Oh I see, when they, think a nigga is, stupid rich
People just start coming up with stupid shit
Man shit I could never predict
Hold up, let me hit you with this
Rolling in a Bugatti with fo’ chains is some foolishness
Yea yea yea, that’d be the shit
They’d rather see a nigga locked up, why?
 for 
stupid shit
Look how they did my nigga Tip
Soon as Wayne get out, Tip go in
Wonder why the nigga wanna make the clip go in
Wonder why it so hard when it get going
Hold ya head my niggas the system is
Made to make niggas fall
Made to make niggas fail
Especially if you ball
They don’t take niggas well
Nah, you can't come through flying in a, in a Bentley shining
I’m in the back
Backseat driving screaming on a nigga like I’m actually driving
[Bridge: Kanye West]
[Hook: Kid Cudi]


 (KANYE WEST, 
GUY-MANUEL DE HOMEM-CHRISTO, THOMAS BANGALTER,
 
MALIK JONES,
 
CHÉ SMITH,
 
ELON RUTBERG,
 
CYDEL YOUNG
, 
DERRICK WATKINS,
 
MIKE DEAN
) 
ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL
 PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST AND 
DAFT PUNK
 ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY MIKE DEAN 
#MWA
 AND 
BENJI B
 
ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN
, 
ANTHONY KILHOFFER,
 
ANDREW DAWSON
 AND MIKE DEAN AT NO NAME HOTEL & STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; KENTA YONESAKA AND DAVID ROWLAND AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, 
DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL
 AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT 
SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU
, CA MIX ASSISTED BY SEAN OAKLEY,ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA CHOIR PRODUCED BY KEN LEWIS 
DRUMS BY DYLAN WISSING
 
PERCUSSION BY MATT TEITELMAN
 CHOIR DIRECTOR: ALVIN FIELDS CHOIR: CARMEN ROMAN, K. NITA, JOHN MORGAN, JESSENIA PENA, RONNIE ARTIS, CRYSTAL BRUN, SEAN DREW, NATALIS RUBY RUBERO, LORRAINE BERRY, GLORIA RYANN, TIMEKA LEE CHOIR ENGINEERED BY URI DJEMAL AT MADPAN STUDIOS, NYC 
CONTAINS INTERPOLATION OF “SERMON (HE’LL GIVE US WHAT WE REALLY NEED)”
 WRITTEN BY KEITH CARTER, SR. PUBLISHED BY KEITH CARTER PUBLISHING. USED BY PERMISSION
 (KANYE WEST, GUY-MANUEL DE HOMEM-CHRISTO, THOMAS BANGALTER, MALIK JONES, CYDEL YOUNG, ELON RUTBERG, 
WASALU MUHAMMAD JACO,
 
SAKIYA SANDIFER,
 
MIKE DEAN
, DERRICK WATKINS) ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL 
PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST AND DAFT PUNK
 ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY GESAFFELSTEIN, BRODINSKI, 
MIKE DEAN
 AND 
LUPE FIASCO
, 
JACK DONOGHUE
 AND NOAH GOLDSTEIN ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND 
MIKE DEAN
 AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS; STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS, GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; KENTA YONESAKA, DAVID ROWLAND AND KEVIN MATELA AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY MANNY MARROQUIN AT LARRABEE STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA MIX ASSISTED BY DELBERT BOWERS AND CHRIS GALLAND MASTERED BY CHRIS GEHRINGER AT STERLING SOUND & VLADO MELLER AT MASTERDISK, NYC
 (KANYE WEST, GUY-MANUEL DE HOMEM-CHRISTO, THOMAS BANGALTER, 
ROSS BIRCHARD,
 
JUSTIN VERNON
, MALIK JONES, CHÉ SMITH, ELON RUTBERG, CYDEL YOUNG, 
MIKE DEAN
, DERRICK WATKINS, CLIFTON BAILEY, HARVEL HART, ANAND BAKSHI, RAHUL BURMAN) ASCAP/BMI/PRS/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST, 
MIKE DEAN
 
#MWA
, AND DAFT PUNK 
CO-PRODUCED BY HUDSON MOHAWKE
 ADDITIONAL VOCALS BY JUSTIN VERNON ADDITIONAL PROGRAMMING BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, CHE POPE AND TRAVI$ SCOTT ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND 
MIKE DEAN
 AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS AND GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS AND KENTA YONESAKA AND DAVID ROWLAND AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC MIXED BY MANNY MARROQUIN AT LARRABEE STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA MIX ASSISTED BY DELBERT BOWERS AND CHRIS GALLAND CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “FORWARD INNA DEM CLOTHES” PERFORMED BY CAPLETON, COURTESY OF GREENSLEEVES RECORDS LTD. WRITTEN BY C. BAILEY AND H. HART, PUBLISHED BY BMG CHRYSALIS MUSIC O/B/O GREENSLEEVES PUBLISHING LIMITED AND STB MUSIC, INC. (ASCAP). 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “ARE ZINDAGI HAI KHEL” BY MANNA DEY, RAHUL BURMAN, ASHA BHOSLE
, LICENSED COURTESY OF SAREGAMA INDIA BY ARRANGEMENT WITH THE ROYALTY NETWORK, INC. WRITTEN BY ANAND BAKSHI AND RAHUL BURMAN, PUBLISHED BY TENYOR MUSIC (BMI)
 (KANYE WEST, 
CHRISTOPHER BREAUX,
 CYDEL YOUNG, 
BEN BRONFMAN,
 MALIK JONES, CHÉ SMITH, ELON RUTBERG, SAKIYA SANDIFER, 
LOUIS JOHNSON
, 
MIKE DEAN
, GABOR PRESSER, ANNA ADAMIS) ASCAP)/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST CO-PRODUCED BY BEN BRONFMAN ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY 
MIKE DEAN
 
#MWA
, 
TRAVI$ SCOTT
, NOAH GOLDSTEIN, SHAM JOSEPH, CHE POPE ADDITIONAL VOCALS: FRANK OCEAN NOISES AND VOCAL SOUNDS CREATED AND ENGINEERED BY KEN LEWIS ADDITIONAL PROGRAMMING BY HUDSON MOHAWKE AND ARCA ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND 
MIKE DEAN
 AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS; GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; KENTA YONESAKA, DAVE ROWLAND AND KEVIN MATELA AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY ANTHONY KILHOFFER AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIX ASSISTED BY SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA 
CONTAINS A SAMPLE OF “GYÖNGYHAJÚ LÁNY” PERFORMED BY OMEGA,
 USED COURTESY OF HUNGAROTON RECORDS AND FOTEXNET KFT. WRITTEN BY GABOR PRESSER AND ANNA ADAMIS
 (KANYE WEST, 
MIKE DEAN
, 
JUSTIN VERNON,
 
KEITH COZART
, ELON RUTBERG, CHÉ SMITH, MALIK JONES, ALEJANDRO GHERSI, CYDEL YOUNG, DERRICK WATKINS) ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY 
MIKE DEAN
 AND KANYE WEST ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY ARCA AND NOAH GOLDSTEIN ADDITIONAL INSTRUMENTS BY 
MIKE DEAN
 
#MWA
 (GUITAR SOLO) ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND 
MIKE DEAN
 AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS; GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; KENTA YONESAKA AND DAVID ROWLAND AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE ‘SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY MANNY MARROQUIN AT LARRABEE STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA MIX ASSISTED BY DELBERT BOWERS AND CHRIS GALLAND VOCALS BY CHIEF KEEF AND JUSTIN VERNON
 (KANYE WEST, JUSTIN VERNON, JEFFREY ETHAN CAMPBELL, JOSH LEARY, MALIK JONES, CYDEL YOUNG, SAKIYA SANDIFER, ELON RUTBERG, 
MIKE DEAN
, ANDRE HARRIS, JILL SCOTT, VIDAL DAVIS, CARVIN HAGGINS, KENNY LATTIMORE) ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST CO-PRODUCED BY EVIAN CHRIST AND DOM $OLO ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ARCA AND MIKE DEAN 
#MWA
 VOCALS BY JUSTIN VERNON AND ASSASSIN “OH” VOCALS CREATED BY TAMMY INFUSINO AND KEN LEWIS – ENGINEERED BY BRENT KOLATALO ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND MIKE DEAN AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS; GEE JAM STUDIOS, PORT ANTONIO, JAMAICA; REAL WORLD STUDIOS, BATH, ENGLAND AND SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; MAT ARNOLD AT REAL WORLD STUDIOS, BATH, ENGLAND; DALE AT GEE JAM STUDIOS, JAMAICA, AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIX ASSISTED BY SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “LATELY” PERFORMED BY KENNY LATTIMORE
, USED COURTESY OF SONY MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT. WRITTEN BY A. HARRIS, J. SCOTT, V. DAVIS, C. HAGGINS AND K. LATTIMORE, PUBLISHED BY SONY/ATV TUNES LLC (ASCAP)/EMI APRIL MUSIC INC. O/B/O ITSELF AND TOUCHED BY JAZZ MUSIC (ASCAP)/UNIVERSAL MUSIC CORP. O/B/O DIRTY DRE MUSIC/JAT CAT MUSIC PUBLISHING, INC./BLUE’S BABY MUSIC/NIVRAC TYKE MUSIC (ASCAP)
 (KANYE WEST, ROSS BIRCHARD, ELON RUTBERG, MALIK JONES, 
TONY WILLIAMS
, CYDEL YOUNG, MIKE DEAN, LEWIS ALLEN) ASCAP)/BMI/PRS/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST, HUDSON MOHAWKE AND LUNICE CO-PRODUCED BY CARLOS BROADY FOR SIX JULY PRODUCTIONS, INC. ADDITIONAL 
PRODUCTION BY 88-KEYS
, MIKE DEAN 
#MWA
 AND ARCA ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AND ANTHONY KILHOFFER AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS; GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, DAMIEN PROST, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; KENTA YONESAKA AND DAVID ROWLAND AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIX ASSISTED BY SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA [Produced By Kanye West, Mike Dean & Sak Pase]
[Hook]
This is something like the Holocaust,
 
millions of our people lost
Bow our heads and pray to the Lord
 
'til I die I'm-a fucking ball
Now who gon stop me? Who gon stop me huh?
Who gon stop me? Who gon stop me, huh?
(Black cards, black cars, black on black, black broads
Whole lotta money in a black bag, black strap: you know what that's for)
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Who gon stop me?
No brakes, I need State Farm,
 
so many watches I need eight arms
One neck but got eight charms,
 
who gon stop me huh?
[Kanye]
Niggas talking, they bitchmade,
 
Ixnay off my dicksnay
That’s Pig Latin, itch-bay,
 
who gon stop me huh?
Last night ain’t go so well, got kicked up out the hotel
Got a little freaky like Marvin Albert,
 
"Yes!" Tell Howard Cosell
You just a commentator if you getting paper
Everybody I know from the hood got common haters
In some relations you're just supposed to say none
Heard she fucked the doorman
Well that’s cool I fucked the waitress
Heard Yeezy was racist, well, I guess that’s on one basis
I only like green faces
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Kanye]
Y'all weed purple, my money purple
Y'all Steve Urkel, I’m Oprah's circle
I wrote the verse that I hope will hurt you
[Jay-Z]
Who gon stop me huh?
Beat the odds, beat the Feds
It wouldn’t be wise to bet against the kid
Start me broke, I bet I get rich
Night shift: six to six
Give me one shot, one pot
I’ll show up in all white, wearin no socks
No ceiling, new coupe
They know I’m a dope boy, they don’t have no proof
I’m three steps removed,
 
I know how to move
It's looking like, I don’t know how to lose
I’m winning again, I’m at the Wynn
I’m at the table, I’m gamblin
Lucky lefty, I expect a seven
I went through hell, I’m expectin heaven
I’m owed,
 
I throwed
 
and I stuck to the G-code
I’m here, oh yeah, I promise I ain’t going nowhere
Okay here, like a hare, like a rabbit, I like karats
I’m allergic to havin bunny ears like broke, like nope
Like ha, I ain’t no joke
I can’t be stopped, like nope, like nope!
Extend the beat, Noah..
Two seats in the 911, uh
No limit on the Black Card, uh
Told y'all I was gonna go H·A·M, uh
'Til ocean was my backyard, uh
No lies in my verses, hey
Please pardon all the curses, hey
Shit gotta come some way, fuck
When you're growing up worthless
Middle finger to my old life, uh
Special shoutout to my old head, uh
If it wasn’t for your advice
A nigga would have been so dead
I'm living life til these niggas kill me
Turn this up if you niggas feel me
I’m riding dirty, tryna get filthy
Pablo Picasso,
 
Rothkos,
 
Rilkes
Graduated to the MoMA
And I did all of this without a diploma
Graduated from the corner
Y'all can play me for a muthafuckin fool if you wanna
Street-smart and I’m book smart
Coulda been a chemist cause I cook smart
Only thing that can stop me is me, hey
And I’mma stop when the hook start, hold up
[Hook]


[Produced by Kanye West and DJ Mano]
[Hook: Pusha T]
Woooh!
 
They said be all you can be
Woooh!
 They said be all you can be
I just wanna buy another Rollie
I just wanna pop another band
I just wanna sell dope forever
I just wanna be who I am
[Verse 1: Pusha T]
They said be all you can be, nigga
They said be all you can be
Always knew I could rule the world
Let's define what my world is
Knee deep in this dope money
Damn near where my world ends
Same block, same rock
I was thinking 'bout murdering
I ain't getting my hands dirty
Let you worry 'bout serving 'em
[Hook]
[Bridge: Pusha T]
They said be all you can be, nigga
They said the truth set you free
[Verse 2: 2 Chainz]
Entrepenuer, strip club connoisseur
Hot fudge sundae, pour it on you hallelujah
Pour it on you hallelujah, pour it on you hallelujah
And I be on my own dick, ain't that much room for you, ah
Red, white, blue, I pledge allegence to the street life
Even if it's leftovers I still got to eat right
Got gas in my peace pipe, pink Sprite
She P-popping her jeans tight,
 
all day I dream about sex, three stripes
We the type of crew to get fresh just to sit in the living room
Look out the window, got a bad bitch in my swimming pool
Got a bad bitch in my swimming pool
Got a bad bitch in my swimming pool
We the type of crew to get fresh just to sit in the living room
Look out the window, got a bad bitch in my swimming pool
[Bridge: Pusha T]
They said be all you can be
[Verse 3: Big Sean]
Pretty girls is my reputation
One on my arm, that's decoration
Getting to it, no hesitation
To fuck with me you need a reservation
To the top escalating, elevating
Good music legislation, delegatin'
And I mean that shit like exclamation, exclamation, exclamation
And I'm going 'til I K.O
Eyes closed, I'm OK
All my bitches know they roll
Even when we role-play
My homie got that nine on him
All night and all day
And all night and all day
And all night like that shit's his mothafuckin' soulmate
Cause no time for hand in hand
When you got this paper hand in hand
Bitch I'm feeling like a grown ass lil' boy, nigga na na na na na
Bitch I'm feeling like a grown ass lil' boy, cause I still love to get pampered
But don't get it twisted, watch your step and fuckin' manners
[Bridge: Pusha T]
They said the truth set you free!
[Hook]
[Outro: Pusha T]
I just wanna be who I am
I just wanna be who I am
Always knew I could rule the world
Lets define what my world is
Knee deep in this dope money
Damn near where my world ends


Us living as we do upside-down
And the new word to have is revolution
People don't even want to hear the preacher spill or spiel
Because God's whole card has been thoroughly piqued
And America is now blood and tears instead of milk and honey
The youngsters who were programmed
To continue fucking up woke up one night
Digging Paul Revere and Nat Turner as the good guys
America stripped for bed and we had not all yet closed our eyes
The signs of truth were tattooed across our often entered vagina
We learned to our amazement, the untold tale of scandal
Two long centuries buried in the musty vault
Hosed down daily with a gagging perfume
America was a bastard
The illegitimate daughter of the mother country
Whose legs were then spread around the world
And a rapist known as freedom, free-DOOM
Democracy, liberty, and justice were revolutionary code names
That preceded, the bubblin' bubblin' bubblin' bubblin' bubblin'
In the mother country's crotch
What does Webster say about soul?
"All I want is a good home and a wife
And a children, and some food to feed them every night"
After all is said and done,
 
build a new route to China if they'll have you
WHO WILL SURVIVE IN AMERICA?
WHO WILL SURVIVE IN AMERICA?
WHO WILL SURVIVE IN AMERICA?
WHO WILL SURVIVE IN AMERICA?
[Claps and applause]


[Produced By Anthony Kilhoffer, Kanye West & Mike Dean]
[Hook: Mr Hudson]
Ooooh, I love you so
But why I love you, I'll never know
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
Picture if you will that the throne's burning
Rome's burning and I’m sitting in the corner all alone burning
Why does it always end up like this?
Something that we don’t determine
Same people that I fought for, that I fight for, that I ride for
That I live for, that I die for
Be the reason that these niggas is alive for
And they want me dead but I’m so sorry but I just can’t die for you
But I can make 'em put their hands in the sky for you
We waiting for the fireworks like July 4th
Get fly more, get high more, cry boy, why for?
When the grief is over, beef is over
I’ll be fly when Easter’s over
I tried to teach niggas how to be kings
And all they ever wanted to be was soldiers
So the love is gone 'til blood is drawn
So we no longer wear the same uniform
Fuck you squares, the circle got smaller
The castle got bigger, the walls got taller
And truth be told after all that said
Niggas still got love for you
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Jay-Z (Kanye West)]
Showed love to you niggas
You ripped out my heart and you stepped on it
I picked up the pieces before you swept on it
Goddamn this shit leaves a mess, don’t it?
Shit feelin’ like death, don’t it?
Charge it to the game, whatever’s left on it
I spent about a minute, maybe less on it
Fly pelican fly,
 
turn the jets on it
 
but first I shall digress on it
Wasn’t I a good king?
 
(Maybe too much of a good thing, huh?)
Didn’t I spoil you?
 
Me or the money, what you loyal to?
(Huh, I gave you my loyalty)
 
Made you royalty and royalties
(Took care of these niggas' lawyer fees)
 
and this is how niggas rewardin' me, damn
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z (Kanye West)]
Bussin’ at me, b-b-b-bussin’ at me
But I’m bullet proof, bitch you can’t get nothin’ past me
Got body armor (A nigga gotta watch the throne)
And I’m bussin’ back
 
so niggas in a glass house should not throw stones
What do you do when the love turns the hate?
(Gotta separate from these fuckin fakes)
Caesar didn’t see it so he ceased to exist
So the nigga that killed him had keys to his shit
Am I my brother’s keeper?
 
(Only if that nigga don’t creep up)
Got a pistol under my pillow (I’ve never been a deep sleeper)
P-p-p-paranoia
(Cause the nigga that said he’ll) blast for ya (is now) blastin for ya
That’s an assassin for ya
 
(These niggas got a shot they’ll shoot)
Please Lord (forgive him) for these niggas (not know) what they do, ooh


[Freestyle 1: Kanye West] (To Nick Cannon)
Ayo dog
Nicky my dog
And this is for sure
So I'm not going to break you down
Ask Christina Millian know what we did on tour
Stays on tour, and i'll tell you right now
And I like Indian girls, but I won't hurry
Last time we boned, you had the bedroom smelling like curry
[Freestyle 2: Kanye West] (To Kat Williams)
Come on boss
You were suppose to be the Pimp and Prince
I've seen you in Friday after next
And I haven't seen you since
[Freestyle 3: Kanye West]
Look it's hard for me to say shit
Cause I don't know about that gay shit
But I see you do, looking like Tiger Woods
Like lost in the hood
Looking like Bryant Gumbel
And expect me to be humble
Every time I flip a fold your goin to crumble
With them phony ass pony's
Bitch read the news
Why you always try running in the back and grab all the free shoes
So Why don't you buy somethin' ?
Why don't you try somethin' ?
Stop lying, stop fronting
Yall niggas don't know about nothing
[Freestyle 4: Kanye West]
I could rip all of yall
In a line
With every rhyme
Yall know Kanye, is like the greatest all time
Cause I do the Grammys, and comeback with my family
Rippin' you muthafuckers
With the mic that you hand me
You all don't understand me dawg
You still pushing camrys
Please, step back for a minute
You the Lieutenant, I'm the General
And generality killing yall
And Yeah, and I could keep it right there
Kanye ripping you niggas
This shit is unfair!


Don’t let nobody tell you what you can do, what you can believe, what you can achieve. Don’t let nobody but you
You know, people be looking at me like I got a problem or something. Like I’m uncontrollable or something. Like I don’t do what I’m supposed to do.
 You know it’s like they want to have everybody so brainwashed. They want to control everybody, you know, rumors, lies, media, marketing. It’s like they want to steal you from you, and sell you back to you after they stole it. They want to make you feel like you less than who you really are
Cuz as far as I’m concerned everybody’s a star.
 See they want to make you feel like you less than you really are. Cuz as far as I’m concerned everybody’s a star
You know, uh, the first thing they do is crush your dreams.
 Crush your dreams. Then add a couple drops of low self-esteem. And then I don’t think everything is what it seems. And control you with lies. And control you with lies
You know Imma tell you something, first thing they do is crush your dreams. Then let’s add a couple, a couple of drops of low esteem. And they control you with lies. And they control you with lies. And they control you with lies. We goin’ out of control tonight. We goin’ out of control tonight. Ahh
How many people tonight with a show of hands think they are fucking awesome? [Crowd cheers]
Now with a show of hands: How many people tonight have had people tell you your whole life that you wasn’t fucking awesome? [Crowd cheers]
See this is what I’m talking about.This is what I’m talking about. This is what I’m talking about. I mean, this is what I’m talking about, this is what I’m talking about
How many people tonight have ever talked to somebody right, that you know they’ll say, I don’t know what’s wrong with Kanye or make it seem like I’m a bad person in some way, right? Now what have I ever done that was so wrong other than believe in myself? Now believing in yourself is so, so, so wrong that the other side is so, so, so, so strong, they’re trying to beat down and demonize and dishumanize — I don’t know if that’s a word or not, but it’s now a word, cuz I said it’s a fucking word — and try to dishumanize people who believe in themselves. Cuz then what happens? Then you believe in yourself. And then you believe in yourself and you believe anything is possible. How many people believe that what they 
dream about, what y’all want to do, whether you want to be a doctor or lawyer, a designer, a musician, video-game
 programmer, a lighting guy, a manager … how many people want to contribute something to the world?
You see, I know you all might have seen some of my interviews and seen me on TV, but what I was saying the whole time is, what I was saying the whole time is, cuz I’m not — [to stagehand] making it lighter, make it lighter, the second, the second light — I’m not particularly angry or anything like that, but what I’m saying is, they taking the idea of celebrity and trying to make me seem I was stupid or something. You know, when I take these meanings and shit, [crowd chants “Kanye”] people they talk to you like you’re stupid or something. And then you look back and say, you know, like I’m not gonna call no names out, 
I’m not going to mention Nike or nothing like that.
 I’m not going to say no names or anything
But if you’re a creative and you want to create, and you just want to create more, this is exactly what I’ve been fighting for. So if you hear me talking about Louis Vuitton or the Gucci Group or anything like that. I’m not dissing Louis Vuitton, I’m not dissing the Gucci Group and shit. I’m just saying, don’t discriminate against me, because I’m a black man or because I’m a celebrity, and tell me that I can create, but not feel. Cuz you know damn well there aren’t no black guys or celebrities making no Louis Vuitton nothing. 
They let Pharrell make those glasses, and we liked them, right?
 They let me make those shoes, and we liked them right?
And they say, “No, no, no, nigger. Not no more. That’s too much. That’s too much. No, no, no, no, no, no, nigger not no more. That’s way too much. That’s way too much. Stay in your place. Sit in the front of that show and wear this jacket I made you. Stay in your place. Do what you get paid to do. Stay in your place. Don’t embarrass yourself trying to chase your dreams. Save face. Save face.”
That’s why I got this fucking mask on, cuz I ain’t worried about saving face. Fuck my face! Let’s set ‘em off. Pause. Now they finally got a headline. But fuck whatever my face is supposed to mean! Fuck whatever Kanye is supposed to mean! It’s about my dreams. It’s about everybody’s dreams. It’s about creating. It’s not about the idea of being a fucking celebrity, it’s not about the idea of a black man trying to do fashion and shit. Cuz these walls that I break down, these walls that I break down and we will
And I’m arguing with my friend Spike Jonze in the car cuz he said, Kanye, what you need to say is you’re gonna try. You’re gonna try to break them down. Don’t say you’re just going to do it. And I said, I am gonna do it! I told Kim seven years ago, I’m gonna marry you! And I’m telling you right now as I stand on this stage, all this shit that you heard me talking about, I’m gonna come and back all that shit up. You don’t know how hard it was to get the Nikes, that wasn’t my fault. They try to control y’all and try to control me. 
And when I was in my negotiations, they told me, “We don’t negotiate with celebrities.” That’s like a terrorist. They talk to you like it’s fucking terrorist
You know, I just want to make something awesome. I just want to be awesome, and I want to hang around my awesome friends and change the fucking world, and that’s exactly what I plan to do. And if you plan to do the same, put your hands in the air right now. If you just want to be awesome and make awesome shit and change the fucking world and this is what you plan to do
Let’s have a toast for the douchebags
Source: Vulture


[Verse 1 - Cyhi]
It may seem I'm sitting on a fortune
But sometimes money isn't so important
In my hood, I'm equivalent to Jordan
Dribbling on the court, but shawty I'm just recording
Fuck tricking, rather give it to an orphan
All you wanna do it hit the clit until it's sore, then
Get her pregnant, then neglect it
Then you go and tell the chick "get an abortion"
Them type of niggas Cyhi is not endorsing
They sitting down to take a leak, I'm pissing on the porcelain..
I'm from the South, but my parents are New Yorkin
Shouts out to Albany - I see you Uncle Norman!
Keep your family before friends
Cause God is the only one that come before them
You got a nephew? Well, go support him!
You got some nieces, make sure that you adore them
I miss mine, cause I'm always out here touring
Or with the strippers
 
at the Hilton up on Cortland
One from Utah, the other one from Portland
Throwin' on the Calliope, but I ain't from New Orleans
I can't lie, I lust for things
Like an old-school 'Lac or a Cut supreme
Or an 
iced-out G shock
 and a 
custom ring
And the freak with an ass that sits above her jeans
[
Hook
]
Woopty Doo!
Shawty stay caked up
Woopty Doo!
Just bought an 
Escalade truck
Woopty Doo!
You put some 26s on it
Woopty Doo!
Yo shit be looking pretty, don't it?
Woopty Doo!
You hit the club and 
make it rain
Woopty Doo!
You spend like 
50
 on the chain
But every 365 bro, you get a little wiser
And realize all that stupid shit bought was lame
Cause it don't mean shit, when you out there on your own
Cause it don't mean shit, when the Feds run in your home
Cause it don't mean shit, when you can't take care of your kids
Cause it don't mean shit, nigga, fuck what ya did
I tell them niggas "Woopty Doo! Woopty Doo! Woopty Doo!"
I tell them niggas "Woopty Doo! Woopty Doo! Woopty Doo!"
[Verse 2 - Big Sean]
Ok I'm rocking all gold
I feel like a fuckin' Pharoah from above
Bullets is bigger than fuckin' arrows
But in the middle of that peril
I'm still rocking new apparel
I just left the casino, 
I got money by the barrels
I feel like I'm Al Pacino
I'm counting Robert DiNero
If niggas want war, then best believe me that I'm there
You can catch me in the middle of that field like a scarecrow
Only difference is that a nigga's never scared ho
I'm tired of the cloudy days
I'm wishing for a sun
You would've thought that I was sterile
But I made it to the sky where angel asses erect us
Hollwood directors
, 
Melrose dresses, ass that's the roundest
Toast another round up
, 
but if I fell
Will they catch me before the ground does?
Who your real friends and friends by technicality?
They ask how your mama is, or ask for a salary?
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Cyhi]
Patience is better than pride
So I'm riding factory without the leather inside
Half of y'all ain't got a car to put leather inside
Plus, the smaller the rim, the better the ride!
Suckers talk, but I never reply
Don't hate niggas, cause I've never been a confederate guy
So when I die, and look God dead in the eye
He said I got a room for you and a bed in the sky
But y'all can't get no capital cause y'all priorities fucked up
Part of the minority cause majority of us
Die by the gun and let authorities cuff us
Everyday is like "Glory" to us, bruh
So keep it cool shawty, I see the tool shawty
Niggas say they gangsta's but ain't never made the news
Call me Saint Lou cuz I'm giving y'all the Blues shawty
If you see me in the Lamb, then you know that Boo bought it
I was blessed to leave these streets
I took my first loss when I was 3 weeks deep
A lot of robbing if you not a goblin
I sold weed, but my partner rock a robin like "Twee lee lee"
Heroin and PCP
I had the kush, you want the mid, you had to see GB
So take it serious when you get money
Ain't shit funny, nigga, "hee hee hee!"
[Hook]


*Key*
[G1] Girl #1
[G2] Girl #2
[G3] Girl #3
[G1] Ay Wussup girl
[G2] Heyy girl
[G3] Hey How u doin'?
[G1] Ay you know i finally got my shit together been watchin' that workout plan gurl!!
[G2] Well you lookin' all good and stuff you got you a-
[G1] 
Girl i know it's that workout
[G2] Got you a 
six pack Shakur
 and stuff
[G1] Don't say it
[G3] 
My nigga my nigga I'm tired of puttin' 1-8-7 in my nigga's pager that shit ain't workin' no more
[G1] 
Girl you know I'mma video hofesional now (Girl)
 
since I copped this new workout plan my shit is right, rollin' in Lexus, Acuras, everything girl
[G3] 
Girl, you need to let me know where I can cop that, how much is it?
[G1] 
Girl, you know you ain't gotta pay nothin' around me, I'm the bootleg queen I'll give it to you for Free.99
[G2 & G3] 
FREE.99?!
[G3] That's my dawg, you always lookin' out for us
[G2] 
My nigga, now I can throw away my bus pass and shit oh my God
[G3] Oh, shit


[Produced by Kanye West]
[The Game]
I done been around the world, been around the block
Been around hoes that fucked Biggie and 'Pac
Like Vida Guerra, ass took her to the top
She'll give you some brain, you let her throw up the Roc
Let her put on your chain, she'll throw you some cot
Picture that, like Meagan Good and Jamie Foxx
Hype said it's a wrap, she still on the set
Puttin' oil on her legs like she Gloria Velez
She was Eye Candy in the XXL
Hopped off the page and on a skateboard with Pharrell
I knew she wouldn't get far cause five hundred dollars
Can't get you that far, how you get that far
And all these new video bitches tryin to be Melyssa Ford
But they don't know Melyssa Ford drive a Honda Accord
She a video vixen, but behind closed doors
She do whatever it take to get to the Grammy Awards, ha ha
[Hook: The Game]
You wouldn't get far, fuckin' them rap stars
You know who you are, put your hands up ladies
You wouldn't get far, if you kept your legs closed
It would be just a waste of time
But you know, you wouldn't get far, fuckin' them rap stars
You know who you are, I wrote this song for you
For you baby, I'd find you, for you and you, for all y'all
[Kanye West]
Pop quiz, how many topless, black foxes
Did I have under my belt, like boxers
Not to brag but, if it add up
One, two... nigga that's mad nuts
Game you mad nuts, how you gon' call out all these
Bitches knowin' damn well they gon' call me
The only dream, of that ghetto prom queen
Was to make it to the screen, maybe get seen
Maybe get chose by a nigga from my team
Head so good he don't ask for a pre---nup
Now ask yourself this question, umm
Would you be with Jay-Z if he wasn't C-E-O
Would you be with F-A-B-O if he drove a Neo
Would you ride with Ne-Yo, if he was in a Geo
Well why the hell you think these bitches comin' at me fo'
But since they all fall in my Palm, I take a trio, yo
[Hook]
[The Game]
I done had my share of bitches with long hair
Short do like Kelis or Halle in Boomerang, yeah
I been around the block in the Bentley drop top
In Miami Beach when Lil' Kim was fuckin with Scott
I got the scoop on Hoops, whatever the case
She'll let you spray in her face long as she Bathing Apes
And ain't nobody tryin' to take Beyonce from Jay
But I know a bitch named Superhead he fucked back in the day
The things niggas do when pussy sittin' on they face
Stabbed Un in the stomach
She must have had a pussy like Wonder Woman, on that superhero shit
Fly as Gabrielle Union
 
in the back of my six, fo'
Impala, forget the double D's
I put 'em right in your face like that model bitch Toccara
And she ain't win the show but she ridin' in that Gallardo
That's why I fuck 'em today and forget 'em tomorrow
[Hook]
[Outro - The Game]
God damn, you know what I'm sayin'
I'm sittin' back watchin' Kanye video
And I see the same bitch that was in the homeboy Busta Rhymes video
Then I flip the muh'fuckin channel
Checkin' out my uncle Snoop Dogg video
And I see the same bitch, that was in my video
You know what I'm sayin'
And then y'knahmsayin, to make that even mo' fucked up
I'm watchin Oprah cover Hurricane Katrina
I see the same bitch on Oprah, floatin away on the hood of a Camry
That was in the nigga Lil Weezy video
I mean damn, everywhere I look
Everywhere I go, I see the same hoes
Don't get mad, I'm only bein' real, yeah


[Intro (Kanye West)]
You like to ride... (uh)
(So "why don't) you and your friends (get with) me and my friends"
"(My friends) my friends, my friends, my friends"
Would you like to ride?
(I don't know what happened, it's just like, heh)
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I had that little ass Nissan at your crib showin' up
Liquor store out of Arbor Mist, 
we Irish Rosed it up
Then we rolled to the movies, you rocked your fake Chloes
You had Gap and Gucci, that's still two G's
But that's that last year purse like it's still too cheap
Ooh you so bougie boo you could have fooled me
Cuz five years ago you was so Fugees
Now you don't want nothin' unless it cost a few Gs
You like the light-skinned Ania, the dark-skinned Aaliyah
The black Jennifer Lopez, a ghetto senorita
You remind me of my 
Jeep
 but not no Kia
We can talk on your cell, but not Nokia
It be goin' in and out, that's why I barely hear ya
It be goin' in and out like a robbery ah
I'm tryin' to take this money like Rob and G. Dep
Then I'mma take you to the house like Trick and Trina
[Hook]
Would you like to ride shotgun in the Escalade
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"
Like a cloud in our sky, grab your things let's fly away
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"
[Verse 2: Malik Yusef]
Malik Yusef, bet your baby momma know the name
The most critically acclaimed wordsmith in the game
I give you words spit with flames
Stay to myself and let nerves mix with lames
Connoisseur of Kama Sutra, do somethin' absurd with your dame
I used to love this girl who loved shoppin' and smokin' herb
But my job was to hustle 'dro
Now an artist of the spoken word, I just hustle flow
Never a pretty boy, always a beautiful mind like Russell Crowe
Now you in places no cabs'll take you, only the bus'll go
I would love for you and your friends to get with me and my friends
But the problemo is your attitude be on the stank side
And I no longer like you
Fuck it, now you can't ride but ooh, wouldn't you like to
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Common]
Deep as the ocean is the motion of life
Thought you would have been the sister I chose for my wife
Not knowin' you was trife
Stiflin'
 a nigga's growth
All you wanna do is shop at River Oaks
Watch soaps on the couch, take shit and smoke
I'm workin' hard like a fiend tryin' to get some dope
Thought my real nigga quotes would make you truer
You ain't gon' let me school ya, at least let me tutor
The sex is good, but you ain't a shooter
There's a war goin' on inside, you ain't a trooper
I look through the mirror and see my reflection
It ain't in your direction 
so I passed her like a reverend
Returned to my Bishop Juan ways goin'
 
Wild West like Kanye
Wherever I lay my ??? is my home, goddamnit I'm grown
Broke broad I'mma leave your ass alone
You still wanna ride though
[Hook]
Would you like to ride shotgun in the Escalade
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"
Like a cloud in our sky, grab your things let's fly away
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"
Would you like to ride shotgun in the Escalade
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"
Like a cloud in our sky, grab your things let's fly away
"So why don't you and your friends get with me and my friends"
"My friends, my friends, my friends, my friends"


[Hook]
I go to Jacob with 25 thou, you go with 25 hundred, wow
I got 11 plaques on my wall right now
You got your first gold single damn nigga, wow
[Verse 1]
H to the Izzo did 3 thou spins in a week
You get a thou in a month, wow
Yall niggas want credit but yall need to slow down
Kanye to the killin yall from Chi-town, how your wife gon say
She never sold drugs a day in her life, but she still wanna pump the Ye
And yall mad cuz yall not knowin, 
cause these canaries so yellow
When yall pull up whether to stop or keep goin
I got G’s, rock Rock n Roll tees wit no sleeves
Tats showin, tucked in strap showin'
How he get seven tv’s in that ‘lac ‘lac
3 in the front, 2 in the back, 2 in that back, back
While you in that hatchback
And tryin to sell work and don’t get shit from them packs back
And try to rap, the studios won't give you ya daps back
And try to get publishin, all you get in your ass capped
And that’s that
[Hook]
[Verse 2]
Magazines call me a rock star, bitches call me cock star
Billboard pop star, neighborhood block star
Chi-town go-getting pimps, we mob-stars
Gingerbread man even says “You’re a monster”
Remember that, uh-huh, that’s that Shrek shit
Remember back in ’92 niggas used to catch reck shit
Remember that track I tracked for you bout 3 months ago
Uh-huh that’s the one, now cut my check bitch
And I ain't feeling that Lexus - more that CLK
See me like "damn! A CLK!?”
Yeah that’s how we eating and, keep us looking peace and then
I ain't know he rap as good as he do beats, and then


[Hook]
I be wyling cause I'm young
Wy-wyling cause I'm young
And I'll be wyling 'til I'm chilling old
[Verse 1]
Liquor all night, love it
Untamed youths, the Coupes moves like bullets
I guess the fact my father smoked and drank
Made it a young nigga destiny to do the exact same
Young wyling and all, me and my co-D's
Watch the phonies, and hoes that claim they blew me
Dark skin China doll with the fake tits
Ice grillin my Spanish chick, word
We all in together, now we off it
Cops be buggin, shotguns on the whip
Fuck 'em, I would never sweat for a piggy
You can catch me high, it's all good, no Biggie
[Hook] (x2)
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Wyling Cuz Im young, I be Wyling cuz im young
She be wyling cuz im hung
They be violent where im from
Fee, fi, fo fum, bitches so dumb
On a balcony making out with me, like she so drunk
Got me feeling like a damn hunk
Headed home im bout to slam dunk
Pray to the box of mags, protect me when im old
Pop a few viarag's, resurrect me
Geezer, ebenezer
Catch titties prolly catch a fucking seizure
But keep a big as crib with a theater
Remind me of my money when I catch amnesia
[Hook](x2)
[Verse 3]
Rage cause I'm paid
Take the grey, and create another shade
Awesome, no mo' bitches playin possum
Pop and lock 'em and send 'em on home
Tired of hoes, all they want is to get chose
Know the code, when a women with some toes
Optimos, takin trips to Australia
Do some blow and hope you make it through the show
Hands, high, go with ya soul and try floatin through the sky
Hide the pain with some pussy and mimosas, Costa Rica, next on the agenda
[Hook](x2)


[Produced by Bink! & Co]
[Intro]
[Lenny Kravitz]
When was the last time we got to be 100% real, ya'll? I don't want ya'll holding back nothing!
[John Legend]
Who do we think we are?
Baby, tell me, who do we think we are?
[Verse 1: John Legend]
We made a lot of magic
It’s the only way we know
Let’s keep the night fantastic
Light it up, tell me more, explore
We love, we love, we love the stars
We could fall so hard
The drinks, the minks, the jewels, the house, the cars
Why’d we ball so hard?
Yeah, I’m not afraid to fly
Here we are, in the air, barely breathing
And we’re not afraid to die
[Hook: John Legend]
Yeah, I’m no afraid to fly
Here we are, in the air, barely breathing
And we’re not afraid to die
Who do we think we are?
Baby, tell me, who do we think we are?
Who do we think we are?
Baby, tell me, who do we think we are?
[Bridge: John Legend]
We’ve got a lot of nerve, girl
We walk around here like we own this place
[Verse 2: Rick Ross]
See my jewels dripping on my Timberlands
Stepping like a criminal, success is so imminent
Pink champagne,
 
black Rolls Royce
Eggplant double breasted suit from Tom Ford
Bon voyage, left haters in the fog
Look up in the sky, bet you recognize a boss
Look into my eyes as I fantasize for us
Still actin’ shy like this is summer class crush
Money comin’ fast, I’m never in a rush, no
Plus another twenty in the tuck
Semi in the truck, another forty on the wrist
Quarter-mill on my mind got me livin’ like I pitch
Dodging Robin Givens,
 
balling like I’m Roger Clemens
Still in the game, uniform all linen
She get Chanel
, 
ski trips to Vail
Only the highest grade, like trees that I inhale
[Hook]
[Outro: John Legend]
Who do we think we are?
I don’t know about y’all, but I feel good 
tonight
There’s something in the air tonight
You know, everyone needs someone to look up to
Why shouldn't it be us?
Who do we think we are?
Tell me, who do we think we are?
Who do we think we are?
Tell me, who do we think we are?
[Lenny Kravitz]
This is our song – our song for the future



CONTAINS A SAMPLE OF “STRANGE FRUIT” AS PERFORMED BY NINA SIMONE.
 COURTESY OF THE VERVE MUSIC GROUP, A DIVISION OF UMG RECORDINGS, INC. UNDER LICENSE FROM UNIVERSAL MUSIC ENTERPRISES. USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. WRITTEN BY LEWIS ALLEN. USED BY PERMISSION OF EDWARD B. MARKS MUSIC COMPANY (BMI)/MUSIC SALES CORPORATION (ASCAP)
 (KANYE WEST, 
SCOTT MESCUDI
, CYDEL YOUNG, MIKE DEAN, LARRY GRIFFIN JR., KEITH ELAM, KEVIN HANSFORD, DUPRE KELLY, CHRIS MARTIN, AL-TERIK WARDRICK, MARLON WILLIAMS, 
TERRENCE THORNTON
, 
TYREE PITTMAN
) ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST, MIKE DEAN 
#MWA
 AND S1 ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY TRAVI$ SCOTT AND ACKEE JUICE ROCKERS ADDITIONAL PROGRAMMING BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN (SFX) ADDITIONAL INSTRUMENTS BY CHRIS “HITCHCOCK” CHORNEY (CELLOS) ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AND MIKE DEAN AT NO NAME HOTEL, PARIS; THE MERCER HOTEL, NYC; GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC; SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA AND REAL WORLD STUDIOS, BATH, ENGLAND ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS; KENTA YONESAKA AND DAVID ROWLAND AT GERMANO STUDIOS, NYC; MATT ARNOLD AT REAL WORLD STUDIOS, BATH, ENGLAND AND SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIXED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIX ASSISTED BY SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA CONTAINS INTERPOLATIONS OF “CHIEF ROCKA,” WRITTEN BY K. ELAM, K. HANSFORD, D. KELLY, C. MARTIN, A. WARDRICK AND M. WILLIAMS, PUBLISHED BY EMI APRIL MUSIC INC./MARLEY MARL MUSIC INC. (ASCAP)/ALMO MUSIC CORP./GIFTED PEARL MUSIC INC. (ASCAP)/ROYNET MUSIC/LOTUG MUSIC (ASCAP)/BMG CHRYSALIS US O/B/O FOUR KNIGHTS MUSIC (BMI)/GHETTOMAN MUSIC (ASCAP) 
CONTAINS A SAMPLE OF “BLOCKA REMIX” (ACKEE JUICE ROCKERS)
 WRITTEN BY TERRENCE THORNTON AND TYREE PITTMAN, PUBLISHED BY SONY/ATV SONGS LLC/NEIGHBORHOOD PUSHA (BMI)/YOUNG CHOP PRODUCTIONS/WARNER CHAPPELL (ASCAP)
 (KANYE WEST, 
LOUIS JOHNSON
, GUY-MANUEL DE HOMEM-CHRISTO, THOMAS BANGALTER, ALEJANDRO GHERSI, MIKE LEVY, SAKIYA SANDIFER, 
AB LIVA
, ELON RUTBERG, MIKE DEAN, MOSES DAVIS, COLIN YORK, LOWELL DUNBAR) ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST AND DAFT PUNK CO-PRODUCED BY GESAFFELSTEIN AND BRODINSKI ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY ARCA AND MIKE DEAN 
#MWA
 ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN AND ANDREW DAWSON AT NO NAME HOTEL AND STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS MIXED BY ANTHONY KILHOFER AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA MIX ASSISTED BY SEAN OAKLEY, ERIC LYNN, DAVE “SQUIRREL” COVELL AND JOSH SMITH AT SHANGRI-LA, MALIBU, CA VOCALS BY KING LOUIE KING L APPEARS COURTESY OF EPIC RECORDS CONTAINS A SAMPLE OF “MEMORIES” PERFORMED BY BEENIE MAN, COURTESY OF VP MUSIC GROUP, INC. WRITTEN BY M. DAVIS, C. YORK AND L. DUNBAR AND PUBLISHED BY TAFARI MUSIC, INC. (ASCAP)/UNIVERSAL MUSIC PUBLISHING/DUBPLATE MUSIC/SHOCKING VIBES MUSIC/JACK RUSSELL MUSIC LTD

 (KANYE WEST, JOHN STEPHENS, 
CHARLIE WILSON,
 CHÉ POPE, ELON RUTBERG, CYDEL YOUNG, MALIK JONES, SAKIYA SANDIFER, 
MIKE DEAN
, NORMAN WHITESIDE, BOB MASSEY, ROBERT DUKES, RONNIE SELF) ASCAP/BMI/COPYRIGHT CONTROL PRODUCED BY KANYE WEST CO-PRODUCED BY CHÉ POPE ADDITIONAL PRODUCTION BY ERIC DANCHILD, NOAH GOLDSTEIN, 
NO ID
 AND 
MIKE DEAN
 ENGINEERED BY NOAH GOLDSTEIN, ANTHONY KILHOFFER AT NO NAME HOTEL AND STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS ASSISTED BY MARC PORTHEAU, KHOÏ HUYNH, RAOUL LE PENNEC, NABIL ESSEMLANI, KEITH PARRY AT STUDIOS DE LA SEINE, PARIS ADDITIONAL VOCALS BY CHARLIE WILSON ADDITIONAL INSTRUMENTS BY 
MIKE DEAN
 (BASS, GUITAR) MIXED BY MANNY MARROQUIN AT LARRABEE STUDIOS, LOS ANGELES, CA MIX ASSISTED BY DELBERT BOWERS AND CHRIS GALLAND CONTAIN INTERPOLATIONS OF “AEROPLANE (REPRISE),” WRITTEN BY N. WHITESIDE AND PUBLISHED BY DUST INDEX (BMI). 
CONTAINS SAMPLES OF “BOUND” PERFORMED BY THE PONDEROSA TWINS PLUS ONE.
 UNDER LICENSE FROM RHINO ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY, A WARNER MUSIC COMPANY AND RMG MUSIC INC./ROBINSON MUSIC GROUP, LLC. WRITTEN BY B. MASSEY AND R. DUKES AND PUBLISHED BY GAMBI MUSIC, INC. ADMINISTERED BY SONGS OF UNIVERSAL, INC. (BMI). 
CONTAINS A SAMPLE OF “SWEET NOTHIN’S” PERFORMED BY BRENDA LEE.
 COURTESY OF MCA NASHVILLE, A DIVISION OF UMG RECORDINGS, INC. UNDER LICENSE FROM UNIVERSAL MUSIC ENTERPRISES. USED BY PERMISSION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. WRITTEN BY RONNIE SELF AND USED COURTESY OF SONGS OF UNIVERSAL, INC. (BMI)


If you ever see somebody next to me, know that they're better than me at something
So -- bars. Bars
So it's really good to have this event tonight which we decided instantaneously, the way we put this shit together, y'all comin' out here tonight vibin' with us. In the way this whole albums put together.
 
The amount of producers that came together for it and the way we worked on this shit really collectively, collaboratively.
 
We didn't give a fuck about what nobody else said outside lookin' in, anything.
 
We just wanted to make the best product possible.
 
And this is just the beginning of an entirely new mentality of how to make music directed for the people.
 
What I said last night is like
, 
we drop this shit June 18th
. 
This ain't about waitin' until August and havin' some big this and that.
 
It's about deliverin' some shit for y'all to go to work to, ride to, listen to while y'all workin' out and shit. Whatever y'all doin' to provide a soundtrack for this shit that's gon' come out. We gon' keep on doin' this shit over and over and over. Makin' shit for my core, my cut
With the creative director 
Matt Williams
 and 
Virgil Abloh
, the whole team, 
Don C,
 
Ibn
, 
all the Been Trill family,
 and the combination of all the people we brought together from 
Daft Punk workin' like 3-4 joints on the album.
 The first joint 
"Onsite", "I Am A God",
 bless 
me
, and 
Mike Dean
. 
Travis Scott
 workin' on the album, 
Hudson Mohawke
, 
Arca.
 And of course, at the end, last -- wait a second, am I forgettin' some people and shit?
Last, but not last, that came and helped bring this whole shit together, the executive producer of this LP and the family, is 
Rick Rubin comin' in and finishing up the whole shit for us
. Which is legendary because everything we did on this project, everything I get like when we release 
'Numbers on the Boards",
 
from the video to the "NO ARTWORK" to the sound of the song and everything.
 I was like, 
"What would Rick Rubin do? What was his Def Jam shit that they were doing?"
 
Because I remember like Ricky would say, "When we did Def Jam, we wasn't really feelin' like we was in competition with nobody, cause this shit was so direct."
 Where we at right now? 
We in the middle of the city right now,
 
over into the motherfuckin' streets and nobody shuttin' down shit while we makin' real music
 and yall vibin out to this shit.. 
So it's good for me to go to the God, Rick Rubin, and play him my shit.
 Ask him questions and allow him to take this project to an entirely new level and he made a lot of great decisions at the end and brought it to a whole new level. 
And I wanted to explain something about the title Yeezus
Simply put: West was my slave name and Yeezus is my god name


Zane Lowe: 
Grab a seat, grab a seat. So, you remember this place? 
?
 I was also thinking about some of the other things we've done as well with the BBC, like 
Abbey Road sprung to mind with the strings.
Kanye West: Oh yeah. That was good. 
That suit was like, I would've worn something different if I could look back right now.
 
I could still do a suit, I just wouldn't have done that exact lapel situation.
ZL
: But talk about really putting yourself on the line with that. 
That was so early on for you to be stepping in a room with that many players and to give yourself that objective.
 What are your thoughts when you think back about Abbey Road, where...it's just nuts.
KW: I thought it was good. I thought it was what I was supposed to do at that time. If I see something, if I see an opportunity, I'm gonna go for it. 
We're all gonna die one day.
ZL: Yeah, that's true.
KW: 
So live like that. Live like you could die tomorrow. Go for it.
 Those steps have been the platforms that allowed me to make it this far.
ZL: And you have, man, and you're here. 
Six original albums of your own
, 
a Throne record
, various records with G.O.O.D. Music to talk about. But seriously, man, 
. Bravo, dude. I mean, that is one of the most creative records of any genre I've heard in a very, very long time, and just in terms of your output, your most exciting-sounding record, I think.
KW: Oh, thank you very much. Yeah, I feel I was able to start making exactly what was in my mind again, not having to speak with the textures of the time. Cause, you know, 
 is definitely Kanye West, 
and there's something weird and kind of off about "Mercy," like when it has the high-pitched (impersonates noise), that type of sound. It sounds like art still a little bit, even though it obviously was a radio smash.
But when I get into the idea, the trap drums and things like that, certain songs that are blatant radio hits, it's like I'm speaking with today's textures. If you look at it 200 years from now, it's not going to stand out in the way that 
 or 
 stands out, and can completely push or redefine or make people say, hey, I completely hate that, or I completely love that, but let me just think differently. Because 
everybody is bound to these -- no pun intended
 -- they're bound 
 sixteen bars or eight bars, and 
the normal radio thing
.
I was talking to Frank Ocean about this
, and said, 
my mom got arrested for the sit-ins,
 and now we're more like the sit-outs. 
Like, sit off of radio, and say, hey radio, come to 
.
 We need to find something new, because it's being controlled in a way, and manufactured in a way, 
that really awesome artists can make amazing music and not break as far past as, like, something that's very formulaic.
ZL: So it almost feels like a duty to you in a weird way? Having the peoples' ear, having peoples' attention for great music, to be able to say, well, if I'm not challenging them enough, I'm not challenging myself, not challenging radio, what am I doing?
KW: Yeah. I'm not trying to regurgitate myself. I showed people that I understand how to make perfect. 
 could be considered to be perfect.
 
I know how to make perfect.
 
But that's not what I'm here to do. I'm here to crack the pavement and make new grounds, sonically and society, culturally.
ZL: You've done that with 
. It's fascinating for us to sit here and talk about this record now, because normally when I talk to artists about records of this nature, it's in the lead-up to something. So we're all kind of playing a guessing game, you know what I mean? You could tell me what you think of the record, but I'm trying to find my way around it, the audience probably won't have heard it. In this case, it's been out for a minute, so we can reflect on it with the benefit of hindsight, too. You've seen what everyone else has had to say about this record, both good and bad. But I'm fascinated to know, today, how 
 would describe 
, as someone who made it. How you would describe that record.
KW: I just think that I'm a production person, I'm a product guy, I'm a producer. So if I'm working on a John Legend album, I'm gonna try to give John Legend the best home for him to stay in. 
And I'm gonna try to push Pusha T -- no pun intended once again,
 this keeps happening to me -- to make the thing that represents what I like about his music the most. 
And then for me as Kanye West, I gotta fuck shit up.
ZL: And you did, dude, seriously. From the minute it starts. I mean, seriously. (Plays opening to "On Sight"). 
It's disgusting.
So you're up in the loft probably at this point, and you're kicking around ideas, and you're putting things together, and this sound comes into your head, and you're like, this is what I'm looking for?
KW: 
Nah. This is me going to the studio with Thomas and Guy-Manuel, who's Daft Punk.
 
They had a synthesizer the size of that wall right there.
 This is just one session right here. This beat was originally like 14 minutes long, and that part in the beginning was something we completely just distorted, and I ended up making that the intro.
ZL: You know, I got a beef with you over this track. It's too short! I wanted more out of it. Cause it's one of the best beats on the record for me, and it feels like you're just getting warmed up. Was that kind of deliberate, to pull back after only a couple of verses and go, you know what, we're going to get on with the album now?
KW: Nah, it's just what I felt, like it should be.
ZL: Just a dance thing.
KW: And you know, originally "Blood on the Leaves" was supposed to be first.
ZL: Wow.
KW: Which, psychologically, I know would have changed certain 
 naysayers
 
about the album.
 It wasn't that time for me. I didn't want to come up there and perform. A lot of times, music can be presented as a service position. But I wanted to take a more aggressive approach with music.
You know, people go on a vacation and say, you got the drugs, you got the music, you got the wine? It's in that territory. But I wanted to speak up and say, okay, so my voice is only compressed to express myself artistically through music. It's the only place where I actually have a deal, so I can only consistently make things in music. 
So I'm gonna take music and I'm gonna try to make it three-dimensional, like on 
 and the hologram'll pop up out of R2D2.
 I'm gonna try to make something that jumps up and affects you, in a good or bad way. Whether it's, 
I'm going into a scream in the middle of the track because that's just the way I feel.
 But I'm not here to make easy listening, easy programmable music.
ZL: No. You're so off the reservation on this album in the best possible way. Like you talked about, the way you use your voice in different ways, you don't rely on conventional rhyming flows. Your opening line, "Yeezus season approaching," you know? "A monster's awoken." You're laying it out there, this isn't 
 part 2. I'm wilding out on this record, straight away.
(Plays interlude from "On Sight"). And then from nowhere as well, we just get treated to these wonderful moments where, like you say, it's almost like a collage. Like you're sitting here going, you know, why 
 I go into this? Why not?
KW: You can.
ZL: And you did.
KW: That's how life is. It's like a car crash. You could just be driving, and just out of nowhere it happens.
ZL: At what point did that very deliberate feel to the record, whereby breaks come in and join this really discordant electronic moments and everything seems to exist in this very contradictory but it works kind of way, at what point did that start to take shape? Because it is very omnipresent through the record as a whole, the way it flips between one and the other. Was that in your head early on, or did that come towards the end when you started to reduce the record?
KW: 
Well, I didn't reduce it. Rick Rubin reduced it. He's not a producer, he's a reducer. (Laughs).
ZL: But was it always part of the process for you, to say, why don't I take elements of this and this and just (claps hands together) bolt it together?
KW: Yeah. It's just the way I was consuming information in my life at the time. Negative information to positive information, from the Internet, just going to the Louvre, going to furniture exhibits and understanding that, trying to open up and do interviews like this, learning more about architecture. [Michelle]
I like that because I thought you're on the way to doing things differently, all the promotion around your album. It was really like just awesome to me, because it wasn't the traditional roll out that they do to radio where they send the single and then they're doing is they're doing that and, you know, you're doing an appearance on, you know, whatever TV show. But it was really cool. It was like when you showed in over 60 cities. You showed the-- you know, I wouldn't even call them videos. It was more of like a-- just an art exhibition that you did in these different cities. It is kind of, "What's spurred that, to do it that way?"
[Kanye]
I mean, we have dreams. We wake up, and we make them happen. I appreciate that my label allowed me to go unorthodox with that. And there's people at the label who appreciate it and there's people who don't appreciate that. It's like non-traditional in that way. But I have to push. And really, it's all practice to me. Being a musician is practice. Life is practice. You know, so it's not like a in go-- so I'm fine to make a mistake. I'm fine to, like, put out an auto tune album that no one understands. I'm fine to put out a complete punk new wave album that no one understands. I'm not trying to maintain, you know, some spot in the hip-hop charts on radio or something like that. I'm trying to open up people's minds. I want people to think more. I want people to feel like it's okay to create. I want people to feel like it's okay to make mistakes in front of people and follow what their dreams are and not feel boxed in. I want people to feel like, you know, awesome is possible. I want them to, you know, feel like, you know-- it's not a matter of just even what I'm doing at DONDA. It's the amount of people that are hearing me and now they're going to fight to get the best ideas out. Because the world will only be saved through good intention and design, It's not going to be saved is politics. The irony is, what holds things back? Politics! So how could that push things forward?
[Michelle]
I heard you say that you were trying to work out a deal with the Gap and politics held you back from doing that with your merchandise for the tour, and it may be just wonder what, sort of-- elaborate on that. What are you talking about when you say "politics?"
[Kanye]
I mean it, like, what would happen if I was able to design a collection and was like backed by the Gap? It would be awesome, right?
[Michelle]
It would totally be awesome, but then my question for you is, but you have-- you're not hurting. You're doing well, so couldn't you just do that yourself? You don't need the Gap.
[Kanye]
No, you can't. You need the infrastructure. It's not a matter of just having money.
[Michelle]
But you have a great staff set up in everything, I feel like...
[Kanye]
No, I don't have a great staff at all. That is a skill set that takes years and years of anything. If I wanted to get into the coal business and I had-- and also, "well-off" is that, that is-- what's the word I'm looking for? I'm trying to use the simplest word sometimes. Yeah, it's all relative. Because I'm not, because, okay-- I could make an amount that seems, like, really crazy to people, like 10 million a year, right? To open up a new fashion company might costs 15 million. So if I went and took all the money I had and I invested it into trying to do it like that, it could leave me 5 million in debt.
[Michelle]
That's fair enough, I get that.
[Kanye]
And then you're not well-off.
[Michelle]
That's-- yeah-- I'm sorry, I know it's not all about money, but I've just been saying that the team that you have at DONDA and-- I would think that you could hire anybody that may want to come and work for you.
[Kanye]
I'll-- now we are. Because of what we're doing. Because of the way we're turning up. Now we can get real designers, real infrastructure. But it's really hard. Just as much as, you know, getting a creative person is hard, it's hard to get the back office guys; the people that run the-- [?] who do the real work. Yeah, you get the Rihannas, the Big Seans, the Kanyes, but you need the Barry Weiss, the Steve Barlows and [?], and like these people, you know, all the people all the people who get mentioned on the Grammy speeches, and you just can't, that's-- what you're saying is like-- Okay, you're a major recording artist because you signed to a major label. Can't you just do independent clothing? The answer is, "No." Now, can't you just get a clothing deal from a major label? The answer is, also, currently is, "No." And that's the issue. That's the Truman Show wall. That's the glass ceilings. That's the Michael Jackson can't get his video played. Because everybody-- nobody is looking at what Obama is wearing. I'm the number one most influential person on the globe in fashion. [?] is a great designer. I love Saint Laurent and their $1 million dollar jackets and everything. I love it. But, I should have backing from one in the majors. Louis Vuitton group which is Bernard Arnault, Karen group, which is France Rapinoe, or Renzo Rosso, who owns Diesel and Margiela. Bottom line. And that's the only way it's going to be, because the thing is, when you try to go, you know, when you go less that, the level of the product is just isn't where should be. Yeah I'm doing T-shirts that are amazing. We put all our design into it, and so many people like T-shirts. And I love that. I get people T-shirts. But I also want to create entire gyms. Like gyms. Like I want to make a gym. I wanna make a store. I want to do apartment complexes. I want to build cities. I want to be involved with hyperloop when it comes to reality, with Eli Musk. That's the conversation I want to be in. So I will not be held into a box of being a musician, or that you get it somehow confused. I don't look like a rapper. Now rappers look like me, but when I started, I wasn't gangsta enough. You know what I'm saying? Like, I'm getting married to Kim Kardashian, and I've never played in the NBA.
(Laughter)
[Michelle
Oh my god.
[Kanye]
So, that's thought.
[Michelle]
You know, you raise a really good point here. If you just joined us, I'm Michelle and we're live on 97.1 Radio Los Angeles with Kanye West. You know, in creativity in rap music, do you think that, because I don't-- you definitely don't do things like everybody else. Do you think there's a certain lack of originality and creativity, not, you know, I'm not going to say that for all rap, but it seems like you do things a little differently. And a love that that; with music, I mean.
[Kanye West]
There's a lack of creativity in every field, because people are afraid. Because the powers control people. And the only place where people can be fully creative is in Silicon Valley. Everything else, there's an old regime. And oligarchs are controlling whether or not you're going to be able to feed your kids. So no one can say the type of stuff that I'm saying because they'll lose their job.
There is a a lack in creativity in Hollywood. There's a lack in creativity in clothing. There's a lack creativity in the education system. There's a lack in creativity on the globe period! @hen you look up and look at billboard ads, the majority of them suck. There's a lack creativity in advertising, in agencies. There's just a lack, because the person with the good idea needs to pay dues for 20 years before their positioned to say the idea, and they might not have the relevancy anymore. Right now, I have the relevancy and I have the perspective and I have the voice and I'm going to scream as loud as I can. And ain't nothing gon' happen to me except success.
[Michelle]
You're here to save it, man. At least, like, change it, which I love. Whoo! That heat, I love that.
There's so much passion because I share a lot of the same-- where the view is my passion, and I feel like people don't always get it. You know, and they're like, "Gosh, it's kind of harsh" with everyone. You've just got to be true to yourself. You know? I got to-- by the way, before I forget, you know with your clothing and your fashion, we were just talking about your merch line.
[Kanye]
Really quick, and don't forget your question, please. I wanna stop using the term "fashion," because Eve made Adam bite an apple. And since then, it's been illegal to be naked. I'm helping people follow the law in style. I'm helping people with their opinion on how to follow the law. This isn't about fashion. I'm creating new standards, things so you don't have to think about it. Fashion is too high of a skill set. It just needs to be easy. Easy as the hoodie and jeans that I'm wearing. And I'll do all the hard work. I'll figure out exactly where that collar goes and exactly where that hoodie sits and-- and how many times you can wash that fabric and stuff so that it looks better 5 years from now. I'll do the hard work for you. Fashion is forcing people to do all this hard work where you look back 2 years from now and say, "That looked crazy!"[Intro: Sway & Kanye]
Why don't you empower yourself and don't need them and do it yourself?
How Sway?
Take a few steps back to...
[Hook]
You ain't got the answers man
You ain't got the answers
You ain't got the answers Sway
I been doing this more than you
You ain't got the answers man
You ain't got the answers
You ain't got the answers Sway
(I'm asking you for the answers!)
You ain't got the answers man
You ain't got the answers
You ain't got the answers Sway
I been doing this more than you
You ain't got the answers man
You ain't got the answers
You ain't got the answers Sway
You ain't been doing the education
[Verse 1]
I am Shakespeare in the flesh
Walt Disney, Nike, Google
Let me create more
Or do you want to marginalize me til I'm out of my moment?
I am the number 1 most impactful artist of our generation
You ain't got the answers man
(You ain't gotta turn up man ain't no fucking show man)
You ain't spent 13 million dollars of your own trying to empower yourself
What's the name of your clothing line? We don't know
[Hook]
[Outro]
Why don't you empower yourself and don't need them and do it yourself?
How Sway?
Take a few steps back to...
You ain't got the answers man
You ain't got the answers
You ain't got the answers
You ain't got the answers Sway


[Lil' Wayne:]
Target practice, baby
Only thing is
I'm not the shooter
I'm the bullet bitch
[Verse One: Kanye West]
They say your attitude determines your latitude
I'm high as a motherfucker - fly as a motherfucker
And still the motherfucker you love to hate
But can't - because you love what I make
Now ain't - that about a bitch
That Imma talk shit until I'm out of hits
They don't want to turn they speakers up they claim I ain't deep enough
All that talkin' I feed off of - keep it up
I'm relaxin' my feet is up - I'm leavin' you haters
Like when Shaq left the Lakers just to "Heat" it up
I state the stats to stunt - I don't need to front
There black history e'ry day - I don't need a month
The survey says - by the streets according
Kanye's just important as Michael Jordan
Was to the NBA when he was scorin'
Ralph Lauren was borin' before I wore him and..
[Hook]
You ain't neva gotta ask again
How we got the world to listen
It ain't easy to pretend
I know you lost your cool
And it starting to come back again
Wake and stop it's just the begining
You ain't never gotta ask again
Baby this is what we do
[Verse Two: Lil Wayne]
Yeah, what you want
And if you strapped, we can trade like the Dow Jones
Wet him up
Hope he got his towel on
I aim at the moon
And get my howl on
Some niggas cry wolf, i'm on that dry cush
And when it comes to that paper i stack books
Yeah, You heard what i said
I can put you on your feet or put some money on your head
Life ain't cheap
You're better off dead if you can't pay the fee
Shoutout ma nigga fee
See every muthafucka at the door don't get a key
You outside lookin in, so tell me what you see
Its about money it's bigger than me
I told my homies don't kill him bring the nigga to me, yeah
Don't miss, you fuckin with the hitmen
Kidnap a nigga, make him feel like a kid again
[Hook]
[Verse Three: T.I.]
Now, e'rybody wanna be the king of the South
When, they ain't runnin a damn thing but they mouth
No doubt, it's all good, y'all just statin y'all opinion
But in the South and in the hood it's understood without sayin
It's a given, and ain't because of what I'm doin for a livin
It's, mo' because of what I do and how I'm livin
Not to mention when I'm rappin I'm just hurtin niggas feelings
(Niggas feelings) And still chillin on somethin that's into healing
Made provisions for the clique to continue keepin it pimpin
Whether crack was in the house or record sales was through the ceiling
So say what you want, and do what you please
But for fun, I shoot 22's from your shoes to your knees
I run a record label and a crew of G's
So, niggas'll come and look for you if ya sneeze
Or even breathe the wrong way, you better do what the song say
And be easy, or else it'll be a long day
[Hook]
[Verse Four: Jay-Z]
They say an eye for an eye, we both lose our sight
And two wrongs don't make a right
But when you been wrong and you know all along that it's just one life
At what point does one fight? (Good question right!)
'Fore you knock the war, try to put your dogs in it
Ten-and-a-halfs, for a minute-and-a-half
Bet that stops all the grinnin and the laughs
When you play the game of life and the win ain't in the bag
When your options is none and the pen is all you have
Or the block, niggas standin tight, there's limits on the ave
Tryin to cop or shot-call theyself cleansin in the cash
But can't put they name on paper cause, then you on blast
Mr. President, there's drugs in our residence
Tell me what you want me to do, come break bread with us
Mr. Governor, I swear there's a cover up
Mr. Governor, I swear there's a cover up


Baby, baby, baby
From the day I saw you
I really really want to catch your eye
There's something special 'bout you
I must really like you
Cause not a lotta guys are worth my time
Ooo baby, baby, baby
It's gettin kind of crazy
Cause you are takin over my mind
And it feels like oooooo
But you don't know my name
And I swear it feels like ooooo ooooo ooooo ooooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know)
Oh baby baby baby
I see us on our first date
You're doin everything that makes me smile
And when we had our first kiss
It happened on a Thursday
Ooooo it set my soul on fire
Ooo baby baby baby
I can't wait for the first time
My imagination's runnin wild
It feels like ooooo
You don't know my name
And I swear it baby, it feels like oooo ooooo ooooo ooooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know)
"
I'm sayin, he don't even know what he's doin' to me
Got me feelin' all crazy inside
I'm feelin like"
Owww! Ooooo Oooooo
Doin more than I've ever done for anyone's attention
Take notice of what's in front of you
Cause did I mention you're 'bout to miss a good thing
And you'll never know how good it feels to have all of my affection
And you'll never get a chance to experience my lovin'
Cause my lovin' feels like ooooooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know
And I swear it feels like oooo ooooo ooooo ooooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know)
Ohhh
Will you ever know it, no no no no no
Will you ever know it?
[
Alicia talking on the phone (choirs)]
"I'm gonna have to just go ahead and call this boy
Hello? Can I speak to -- to Michael?
Oh hey, how you doin?
Uh, I feel kinda silly doin' this
But um, this is the waitress from the coffee house on 39th and Lennox
You know, the one with the braids?
Yeah, well I see you on Wednesdays all the time
You come in every Wednesday on your lunch break, I think
And you always order the special, with the hot chocolate
And my manager be tripping and stuff
Talking bout we gotta use water
But I always use some milk and cream for you
Cause I think you're kinda sweet
Anyway you always got on some fly blue suit
'n your cufflinks are shining all bright
So, whatchu do? Oh, word? Yeah, that's interesting
Look man, I mean I don't wanna waste your time but
I know girls don't usually do this
But I was wondering if maybe we could get together
Outside the restaurant one day
Cause I doÂ lookÂ a lot different outside my work clothes
I mean we could just go across the street to the park right here
Wait, hold up, my cell phone's breakin up, hold up
Can you hear me now? Yeah
So, what day did you say?
Oh yeah, Thursday's perfect, man:."
And it feels like oooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know)
Baby Baby I swear it's like oooooo
You don't know my name, no no no
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know)
And it feels like oooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know)
And I swear on my mother and father it feels like
Oooo ooo oooo ooo ooo ooo
Oooo ooo oooo ooo ooo ooo
Oooo ooo oooo ooo ooo ooo
You don't know my name
(round and round and round we go, will you ever know?)


[Intro - Background Vocals and Kanye West]
You know, oh you know, I just want you to know
Turn me up, turn me up loud to, loud l-l-l-l-loud, yea, yea!
[Hook x2]
I just want you to know, I just want you to know
I just want you to know, this boy here finna' blow
Southside up in here, Westside up in here
Eastside up in here, throw your hands in the air
[Kanye West]
Kanye the best in the game, now we got that, that thing clear
Kanye West is the name, Southside up in here
Y'all niggas stole the soul, y'all niggas all some clones
Y'all need to change y'all tone, nigga I control the gold
Motherfucker close the do', light the weed and let the douja blow
Why you keep bawlin' though girl, you ain't been around niggas before?
Why my chain rosey gold, why my wrist below zero
How the hell I know B-Lo, why them girls tell you no means no
No means no just as sure as green means go, green means paper
Dream team, caper we see haters like shorty on the 'Sixth Sense'
Y'all finna' see some dead people, come through ya block and air people
My people ain't scared people, only FIG-I-AIR people
[Hook x2]
[B-Lo]
This track really hot so I gotta spit fire in here
Vogue and a flo, B-Lo represent west side in here
This thang West C-I, do you wanna smoke one to the dome
Better hit her good, knock on double wood
If it don't affect, then I'm gone
I drop bricks on blocks, I got sick on loc'
Radio keep my slide, fuck it nigga, I'm so high!
I set birds in them, but I'm not a Vir-Gee-In!
Platinum shit, that's my plan, if a nigga really want it then
Cadillac, slam the doors, keep a chick all in 'em oh
My niggas all from the go, Do Or Die way too cold
Iced out way to cold, my shit way to fro!
But a nigga already kno! But a nigga already know!
[White Boy]
Rap profit, plat gothic, slash convict raps jock it, phat
Pockets mac, hopin' crack, poppin' stacks
Droppin' cakes, stoppin' wakes, knockin' hate
And you fakes, watchin' base, on relate
Gossip fakes and I make, options
In case I catch a case gots to pay, confrentrate
Need ya way, from this place, cause it ain't common
If this ain't the way, Kan-ye, then it's straight
Colleges, in ya veins cause you spit what you came from
Straight knowledge, I was raised in the street
Praised in my heat, holdin' on my Nextel
Hopin' for my next cell, focused on the best cell
Smokin' on a fresh L, posted like FedEx mail
[Hook 2x]
[Kanye West - Talking]
Yo, by the way
This the Academics Genius Level Mixtape Volume 2


[Hook]
You know you know
You know you know
[Drake - Verse 1]
Uh, you know you know how the story goes
You done jocked my style, you done stole my flow
You done seen me out, you gets no hello
And you wonder why? Man you know you know
Yeah and you should let them boys know too
Show them niggas every single thing I showed you
I'm here feeling like 50 back in ’02, and everybody sayin' I'm the man, so true
Yeah but what does it take to feel secure?
A place with wooden floors and space to put awards
A couple of parking spots and maids to do the chores
The cars you always wanted, the women that you adore
Well I got it, I got it
I wonder if I'd be happy without it, I doubt it
I try not to really think about it
I made it but im still playin' like im bein' scouted til im outted
Game time bitch
, I hope you're proud of us
King James shit watch me throw the powder up
This OG got my whole suite cloudin' up
And I bet you I be out of time before I'm out of luck
They ain't rootin' for me, they ain't clappin' for me
I'm only sayin can somebody just be happy for me
I really hate to say I told you so
So I bite my tongue but you know you know
[Hook]
[Drake - Verse 2]
Uhh, please make your long story shorter
Cause time is of the essence for the king of first quarter
Numbers do the talkin' I have nothing for reporters
I just hope we make these flights and don’t get held up at the border
Yeah so you can spare me all the accolades
I'm the reason you can find my city on an atlas page
Half a million dollars later and my taxes paid
And I'm still spendin' money from my actin' days
Damn, life is such a lovely thing
Feel the perks that a 7 figure budget bring
Tell your girlfriend that I can pull some fuckin' strings
So we're courtside when LeBron get a fuckin' ring
Yeah, I bet I be there I be there
You see that ’62 sittin outside? That's me there
I'm jumpin to the top its my leap year
, prepare
Putting in that overtime I never said it'd be fair
I'm always left wishin' I could have done it in person
My apologies to all of the ones I was hurtin'
I got new girls but none of they love is for certain
And call old girls but none of they numbers are workin'
Damn, what happened to us?
Life can always change, you have to adjust
How come when I got a party you stare at me in disgust?
They pay us just to have fun you should see that as a plus
Especially when I come flyin' through the door
And kindly ignore, the paparazzi outside tryin to record
Why has every woman never dined here before?
Am I the only 23 year old wine connoisseur?
The Rothschilds, the Cru's, the Gajas and the Opuses
It's always nice when you're out with someone that notices
My condo got that art gallery openness
I'm just really hopin that that isn’t what the motive is
They ain't rooting for me, they ain't clapping for me
I'm only sayin can somebody just be happy for me?
I really hate to say I told you so
So I bite my tongue but you know you know
[Hook]


[Mase]
Let's get it on
[Hook: Carl Thomas]
You made me
You made me
You made me the way I am today
You're the reason why
I live how I live
Cuz you made me the way I am
[Verse 1: Huddy Comb]
First of all, I was the worst of all
The first born, took my first breath, it was on
And thanks to my moms, and some help from Nickie Bonds
I was raised in ways of a Don
They gas me like Exxon
Had me dealin' with ex cons, frontin' with they Rolex on
Get sexed on 
a regular basis, grown women puttin' they faces
In all the wrong places, mol
esting me, now you see why my destiny
Was fucked up cuz my recipe
But I blame my mother cuz I can't blame no other
And that's how my game was discovered
My mom was a sucker, did that bullshit to my brother
But no matter what, I'mma love her
She gave me life, even though she got high undercover
If she die, I can't find me another
But look what you made me
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Meeno]
Yeah, you made me this way, since the day I was born
When you slid on that crack shit, mom be strong
'Fore long, I realized the same old song
Another cat that done bounced on his kid and his spouse
At the beginning, I knew my pops just had to be kidding
He's coming back any day, he wouldn't leave us that way
But anyway, the time got longer, my anger got stronger
It's no time to wonder the money I hunger
Without a blunder, I vowed to be all I could be
Started running guns O.T., me and my code D
Leave from the backstreets of A-T-L to N-Y-C
When the gunspot got hot, I switched to the D
When the D spot got hot, I went low key
Now that Harlem World spot hot, and I'm on TV
I don't need no fake calls from yo' ass at all
Just leave me the way you left me and watch me ball
[Hook]
[Bridge: Nas]
What, what, uh
You the reason
And I thank you, what
Check it out
[Verse 3: Nas]
Yo, yo, stormy night, September '73
Would you believe what my mom recieved from heaven was me?
Second from me, my younger brother desperate as me
We see the world alike, type of girls he likes, the girls I like
The shit that make him mad, it make me hype, bug like that
Share the same blood like that, grew up around thugs poppin' and shit
Cardboard boxes and shit, dirt bikes
But now we hoppin' whips and merc, right?
Money's my birthright, my righteous birth so I floss
It's up to you to look inside yourself, see what's yours
Consecutive times, New Year's Eve, light off nines in the skylines
Imaginary graves, poor the Henney on it
Share with my dogs who's here, cuz there's so many gone
Yeah, Meeno, Ill Will, all my people
Big Stretch, we'll never forget, Allah keeps you
Until we meet again, through my pen y'all can speak through, uh
[Hook]


Plain Pat What up (owww)
Uh uh uh uh uh uh
Uh uh uh uh uh uh
Uh uh uh uh uh uh
Uh uh uh uh uh uh
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I've always been the same since back in the day
Always felt like we should get paid
We are magazine or we get played
Why did he say "I don't know; ask Gabe"
Now I'm on the magazines where the roses are
Poppin' champagne in that Rosedon
Won a few awards then we went on tour
And yup in my bag a whole bag of porn
Magazines hate him,then they love him
Then they hate him (we hate him),fuck it what to say then?(fuck it)
Cover of the Fader (yeah)
Now I'm on my way up
Now you want me say what? Huh, you want me say what?
I be talking my shit so I guess im a asshole
They can kick and push like Lu Fiasco
And I guess everytime I'm just gon' get in that mode
So up to the press I guess miss that vote
I did an interview with the Rolling Stones
Read the interiew, man the whole shit wrong
Far as this shit go, you know the way I wanna go
I need Al Gore to recount that vote
You know you know you know you know
You think you really know but you have no idea
You think you really know but you have no idea
You think you really know but I'm right here
You think you really know but you have no idea
And I'm gon' do the same my whole career, yeah
I'm gon' stay the same my whole career, you know?


[Intro: Mr. Hudson]
Let's dance in style, let's dance for a while
Heaven can wait, we're only watching the skies
Hoping for the best but expecting the worst
Are you gonna drop the bomb or not?
Let us die young or let us live forever
We don't have the power but we never say never
Sitting in a sandpit, 
life is a short trip
The music's for the sad man
Forever young, I wanna be forever young
Do you really want to live forever, forever, and ever?
Forever young (young)
I wanna be (Aye, may the best of your todays)
Forever young (Be the worst of your tomorrows)
Do you really want to live forever (But we ain't even thinkin' that far)
Forever (ya know what I mean?)
Forever young
[Verse 1: Jay-Z]
So we livin' life like a video
Where the sun is always out and you never get old
And the champagne's always cold and the music is always good
And the pretty girls just happen to stop by in the hood
And they hop they pretty ass up on the hood of that pretty ass car
Without a wrinkle in today, cuz there's no tomorrow
Just a picture perfect day that last a whole lifetime
And it never ends cause all we have to do is hit rewind
So let's just stay in the moment, smoke some weed, drink some wine
Reminisce, talk some shit, forever young is in your mind
Leave a mark they can't erase, neither space nor time
So when the director yells cut, I'll be fine
I'm forever young
[Hook]
Forever young, I wanna be forever young
Do you really want to live forever, forever, and ever?
Forever young, I wanna be forever young
Do you really want to live forever, forever? Forever young
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Fear not when, fear not why, fear not much while we're alive
Life is for living, not living uptight, 'till you're somewhere up in the sky
Fear not die, I'll be alive for a million years, bye bye's
Are not for legends, I'm forever young, my name shall survive
Through the darkest blocks, over kitchen stoves, over Pyrex pots
My name shall be passed down to generations
While debatin' up in barber shops
Young slung, hung here, showed that a nigga from here
With a little ambition, just what we can become here
And as the father pass the story down to his son's ears
Young'll get younger every year, yeah
So if you love me baby, this is how you let me know
Don't ever let me go, that's how you let me know, baby
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Jay-Z]
Slammin' Bentley doors, hoppin' outta Porsches
Poppin' up on Forbes' list, gorgeous (hold up)
Niggas thought I lost it, they be talking bullshit
I be talking more shit, they nauseous (hold up)
I'll be here forever, you know I'm on my fall shit
And I ain't with foreclosure, I will never forfeit
Less than four bars, Guru bring the chorus in
Did you get the picture yet? I'm painting you a portrait
Of young
[Hook]
Forever young, I wanna be forever young
Do you really want to live forever, forever, and ever?


[Hook: 50 Cent]
You said you're ready, you're not ready
We don't shoot no one on one's
Niggas'll clap, all that pack you
Either way your ass is done
When them shells hit you and they split you
You gon' scream like a bitch
In your dreams it don't feel
How it feels when you're hit
[Verse 1: 50 Cent]
Momma baby boy is a killa
Ain't it funny how them guns get to pop for the scrilla?
Four bodies and 19 men, I love that little nigga
For 5 grand niggas'll air the strip out
For 10 grand niggas'll run up in your house
Have you ass tryna talk with a gun up in ya mouth
New York has taught niggas to get money Down South
But get knocked in the commonwealth, stake your ass out
Fuck the captain, fuck the sarge
Fuck the king's that's in charge, bitch
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Tony Yayo]
When my warriors come out and play, I'm all Cyrus
I eat, sleep, shit and catch niggaritis
And beat niggas down like the turtles on Riker's
I'm a cheap ass connect with some high ass prices
I've been totin'.fo-fo's and Mack-10's
Since Tim Dog was on raw, G ten
I'm the nigga on the strip that make feinds relapse
I'm the nigga on the strip that's a walking G path
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Lloyd Banks]
I don't bash woman, but I'll throw a bitch in a sleeper
I been this way since Rakim was kicking a speaker
You can fly on holiday's like Christmas and Easter
The only way yellow ice is if you piss in the freezer
I'll put your partner in a case and park him off of pace
You suppose to be getting money, cheddar carpet off your face
I'm in the blaze, top runner in the race
Nike fanatic, spent spring summer [?]
Look what happened to Ma$e, I hope you see them same lighters
And my tape pound from me, put you on tubes and vitamins
I might've been slunked in the G-5 drunk and
Thumpin' the chronic one ridin' with the Thump Jiva
I'm on the run from marriage to rolling the carriage
To go with the average, give me someone established
I'm performing if they come with the carros
These bitches want my son in their carriage
But I don't wanna feel dumb and embrassed, bitch



Taking one thousand meetings, attempting to get backing to do clothing and different things like that. Getting no headway whatsoever. It was just that level of frustration.
 
This is what frustration fucking sounds like.
This is what frustration sounds like. For me, as Kanye West, I would not be Kanye West if it wasn't for Michael Jackson. 
I was with Quincy Jones
 a couple days ago at 
John Legend's wedding
. Quincy was telling me, it wasn't just Mike, but these guys broke down the barriers. 
Of course you know Michael Jackson, he had to fight to get his video played because he was black. This is 
. Michael Jackson's not even black, he's Michael Jackson -- you know what I mean?
 He's so crazy, how can he even be classified as this black artist?
So for me, in my life and creativity it's been challenging and everything. But I was able to ascend to massive heights because of the foundation that my mother and my father and my grandfather laid through civil rights, what Michael Jackson did with music videos and the ground he broke. There would be no Kanye West if it wasn't for Michael Jackson - that allowed him to be that, right?
Now let's take people who have issues with me as Kanye West. 
They classify my motivational speeches as rants
 - like "Why is he saying that? Why is he doing that?" Well 
I've reached a point in my life where my Truman Show boat has hit the painting
. And I've got to a point that Michael Jackson did not break down. I have reached the glass ceiling - as a creative person, as a celebrity.
When I say that it means I want to do product. I am a product person. Not just clothing but 
water bottle design
, architecture, everything that you could think about. And I've been at it for 10 years, and I look around and I say, "Hey wait a second - there's no one around here in this space that looks like me." And if they are, they're quiet as fuck!
So that means - wait a second - now we're seriously in a Civil Rights movement. Like people used to joke about - 
remember our South Park photo - remember how funny that was?
 Do you think there would be a Givenchy in the hood if it wasn't for that South Park photo. But no one thinks about that - no one thinks about the names I got called for wearing tight jeans.
ZL: You reference that in the record, you talk about that. "No one's liked him since he's been wearing tight jeans." Everybody knows you brought back real rap. I mean you reference that in the record.
KW: I'm saying y'all had all that, but I brought real rap back. I'm going to do dope things. And I wanna take this opportunity to speak to something, because I go to Hypebeast sometimes to look at the new things that're coming out. And every time my name goes up, there's a series of people who write just negative comments - they wanna joke around and say, "Why is he still trying? Why is he doing this?" They like diss me as a person for trying. Now mind you, I've brought 10 years of product that has added to humanity.
And now, what they don't realize when I say "Hey this is Pusha T, this is what it is" I have to remind Pusha T that he's Pusha T. Because the radio, if they're not playing a song of his that has an R&B hook on it or works at a certain level of trap tempo and plays in clubs, it's like we forget about that Clipse album that meant everything.
And the reason why I relate it to design and what we do in design is saying that's the music that us as creatives that wanted to get into design - we looked at Clipse as the gods, and this is our soundtrack to creativity. And it's not a trap beat that comes in on that soundtrack to creativity. 
No knock to trap, cause I did "Can't Tell Me Nothing" - I like it.
 But it's been commercialized to the point where - and I'm not mentioning no names - but people used to use the term "R&B nigga" but then it was "rappers." But then rappers didn't wanna be no R&B nigga. Now the rappers is the new R&B niggas! The rapper's the new radio! Like where's the culture at? Where is the culture at?
So then I scream - and I'm sitting in the middle of it - 
whether I'm at a dinner with Anna Wintour, or I'm at a listening session with Pusha, or me and Virgil are in Rome giving designs to Fendi
 over and over and gettin' our designs knocked down. 
Brought the leather jogging pants 6 years ago to Fendi, and they said no
. 
How many motherfuckers you done seen with a leather jogging pant?
 
Meaning when I see Hedi Slimane and it's all like, "OK this is my take on the world" - yeah he got some nice $5,000 jeans in there, some nice ones here and there, some good shit here and there.
But we culture. Rap the new rock n' roll! We culture!
 
Rap is the new rock n' roll! We the rock stars!
ZL: It's been like that now for a minute.
KW: 
It's been like that for a minute, Hedi Slimane!
 
It's been like that for a minute. We the real rock stars, and I'm the biggest of all of 'em.
 
I'm the number one rock star on the planet.
CLICK HERE FOR PART 2


Kanye West: 
We the real rockstars and I'm the biggest of all of them. I'm the biggest rock star on the planet.
Zane Lowe: There it is. 
That record
- it says that. That's what your album says when you come out, and there are songs on there where you make it very clear.
KW: So what I want to explain to everybody out there, it's like, I make music I can do it, 
but I shouldn't be limited to only one place of creativity.
 And it's literally only like one of two reason why I haven't been able to break that down.
ZL: But why should you feel that you are? Because-
KW: No! This is the thing you guys don't understand. You guys don't understand. 
You guys don't understand that I did the Yeezys and they EBAY'd for 90 thousand dollars and people wanted them bad as whatever, right?
 But I didn't get a call from Nike the next day. You guys don't understand that I've met with companies and they say, "What we're trying to figure out is how we can control you and control that". If you're an architect and you're a world builder and you have all these ideas and you're 
Gaudi
, and you want to build buildings, if you don't ever get that out, what's gonna happen?
ZL: Isn't that why you do it? Isn't it the process? Isn't it point to do it?
KW: I don't think you're really hearing what I'm saying.
ZL: I'm trying to
KW: As a creative, for you to have done something to the level of the Yeezys and not be able to create more and you cannot- you cannot create that on your own, with no support, with no backing. So when I say "
clean water was only served to the fairer skinned
" what I'm saying is we're making products with chitlins. T-SHIRTS! That's the most we can make! T-shirts. We could have our best perspective on t-shirts. But if it's anything else...
*HAND SMACK*
your Truman Show boat is hitting the wall.
 And what's more important to me about this than everything I can do sonically and everything is, if I go somewhere else and someone says, "Hey, we don't like Kanye West" you've heard that before, right? What people don't realize is I want to make uniforms for my high school basketball team through Brand Yeezy. I want to make that one step, and then make another step, and eventually do uniforms for the entire city, then I want those uniforms to be hot and make money, then I eventually want to be the anchor and the force behind a billion dollar company and after I make that billion dollar step, then I can go in and say I have an opinion on this and that could be a ten billion dollar step, I eventually want to be the anchor of the first trillion dollar company. But when you sit and you have a meeting with a company and show them the most innovate take on theatre because you thought of it one night when you were sitting on top of 
Watch The Throne set
 which you designed with Es Devlin, and I designed the set with Es Devlin and thought of, 
"Ok, surround vision, there should be a screen above you, below you, to the left, to the right of you and one in front of you also"
 
then I paid my own money that I get paid for doing Gold Digger, which I never really liked that song but I always knew I would get paid for doing Gold Digger
, 
then I shoot a film in Qatar with three camera crews,
 with Nate Brown, Virgil, Matt Williams, Nabil, all of these crew- all of the people that every video that pops up every other day on Hypebeast thats my crew, right? So, we go out and shoot that, 3 camera crews over 5 days edited over 30 days, show it at amfAR- no, 
show it in Cannes, the night before amfAR on the beach, build it in a pyramid with Rem Koolhaas' agency, design the entire thing, put editors in it, blah blah blah, people give a standing ovation
, I do 
an interview in New York Times
 the next year to say, "Hey, I did this and I want to let you know I did it", right? And then, it doesn't get mentioned in the interview and a week later they do an interview with George Lucas and Steven Spielberg and they're talking about what the next frontier of theatre will be and how it'll be higher priced tickets and it'll be something that's surrounding you and blah blah blah, maybe it's in the goggles, I said, "Wait a second, I just only did the interview to tell people that I invented it. I made it."
Like I went, I remember when I was, uh, dropping William Morris, right, and then Sarah Newkirk at that time said "Before you drop them, go meet with Ari Emanuel" and I sat with him and I said, "Ari, I'm an inventor" and he goes on to tell me about the way it works and what he said was "You are a celebrity. So basically what's going to happen is, there's product here, and this is where you end up, right here. If you can communicate the product you can make money of the product, cause look at Gaga. She's the Creative Director of Polaroid." 
I like some the Gaga songs. What the fuck does she know about cameras?
 So it becomes all of this thing where all of the musicians- the musicians try to get more money by promoting other products, right? So you'll say "Hey, you know what? I've got this water and we've got, you know, we've got this red version. We got a red bottle, and we've got a David Beckham version here, then we got a blue version." So my opinion is no more than the patina on top of it, when I understand the reason from my core of why something should work all the way through. So, I understand we want to make it about music but I wanted to take this step to say, we got this new thing called "Classism". It's racism's cousin. This is what we do to hold people back. This is what we do. And we got this other thing we got that has been working for a long time where you don't have to be racist anymore it's called "Self-Hate"; it works on itself. It's like real estate of racism. Where, just like that, when someone comes up and says something like 
"I am a god"
, everybody says "Who does he think he is?" I just told you who I thought I am, a god! I just told you! That's who I think I am! Would it have been better if I had a song that said, "I am a nigga"? or if I had song that said "I am a gangsta"? or if I had song that said "I am a pimp"? All those color and patinas fit better on a person like me, right? But to say you are a god? Especially, when you got shipped over to the country that you're in, and your last name is a slave owners. How can you say that; how could you have that mentality?
ZL: I mean, I know in the past you've talked about, like, you know, building hotels, doing things beyond people's normal frame of reference. They know you as Kanye West, an artist. They know you're moving into fashion, but these things in a way I guess are hard on people to comprehend because they don't have that level of drive. Do you know what I mean? Has it always been like this for you? Have you always felt like you can set your mind on anything and you will achieve it, ultimately?
KW: I've always felt I can do anything. That's the main thing people are controlled by, thoughts- the perceptions of themselves. They're slowed down by the perception of themselves. If you're taught you can't do anything you won't do anything. I was taught I could do everything and I'm Kanye West at age 36. 
So just watch the next ten years.
ZL: Yea yea yea.


[Sugar J]
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yo
Check me out, yo
This is J 'Sug', yo
I know you been around the world, man
I don't fuck wit' the sheisty niggas
I don't fuck wit' the sheisty hoes
I done did it all, nigga
[Loon]
Yo, what would make a scared man pull a trigga'?
The same thing that make a scared man act bigga'
The same thing that make me grab my tec and empty quicker
Adrenaline rush, on the hush
You will die fuckin' wit' us
Vacant lot is my home and In my team I trust
So don't talk about them things if yo' things don't bust
I knew a guy like you, his name was Filipe
Had me on 3-way with the D.A
Tryin' to find out where we stay
So on my 24th b-day I'm locked up in V.A
He don't know my guns turn commotion to slow motion
Then from slow motion to no motion
Run up in the place he hip hoppin'
Spit shots in, clip droppin', if I get caught, get Cochran
And give Pedro my pesos so he don't snitch while I lay low
For 'bout a week or two
Come back like peek-a-boo, you see me, I see you
And if you talk, you be in ICU
[Cardan]
Yo, yo, this Cardan
I know you know a hundred brotha's that sheisty
Like I know a hundred brotha's that's real
But I think it's time you know how we chill
[Meeno]
1 - I have been a hundred places and nothin' excites me
Hit a hundred ho's and none of them wifey
For every thousand that love me
A hundred don't like me
So how you wit' a hundred cats and none of the sheisty?
[Drag-On]
We the niggas wit' the homicides
And got niggas the most traumatized
And how they actually sat there and watched they mama die
But don't worry about it, you second
Just had to get her first
Cuz she was the one that gave birth
And we can't have no more dirt in the earth
I hate to be the last nigga to turn off your lights
Without usin' a switch, and throw you in a ditch
Ya body don't fit, cuz niggas could still see ya kicks
So do you really wanna take that risk?
So unball ya fists cuz I'm always a step ahead of ya'll
You ball ya fists, I cock back
You take a swing and you got that
And that's what they gon' mop at
This gun is from a foreign land
I don't know why it got it in my hand
And I'm gonna get off every penny
I don't care if its automatic or semi
If I payed 300 flat, that means I'mma send a hundred cats back
If 300 attack, but it don't hafta be an exact
I'm gonna get the gatts and get 'em all in one house, and run out
And sprinkle some on the grass, and spit on it
And come back to a pile of ash
Repeat 1
[Meeno]
Yo, yo, yo, a hundred sheisty, a hundred and quicker
We strap up inside the 18-wheeler
A drug dealer with cold cash, but so as
To get his stash would be no task with no mess
Love to get you hot and blast, than fast
My infared beam is on yo' ass, my team is on yo' ass
Plot and schemin' on yo' ass
That bitch you came wit' stay screamin' on her ass
Put three on her ass cuz nigga, we love the cash
Harlem World niggas got G's in the stash
No questions asked, time will tell, Heaven or hell
You don't wanna be the nigga who be catchin' the shell
Meeno, and then I be, be the team to prevail
So when you pray, tell Jesus how you wanna be helped
MuthaFucka!!!!
Rock-a-bye baby [repeated til end]
Repeat 1 until fade


Kanye West - 




There are certain things that are just standard. A suit jacket is a suit jacket is a suit jacket. A hoodie is a hoodie is a hoodie. Jeans are jeans are jeans. And a Michael Jordan sneaker is a Michael Jordan sneaker. Now, let's take our kids to the park. It's not about fashion. It's about life, and me helping it become more awesome...
(TO BE CONTINUED)





[Produced by Kanye West]
[Hook: Syleena Johnson]
Oh when it all, it all falls downI'm telling you all, it all falls downOh when it all, it all falls downI'm telling you all, it all falls down
[Intro: Kanye West]Yeah, this the real one, babyUh, Chi-Town stand upSouthside, SouthsideWe gon' set this party off rightWestside, WestsideWe gon' set this party off right
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Man I promise, she's so self-conscious
She has no idea what she's doing in college
That major that she majored in don't make no money
But she won't drop out, her parents will look at her funny
Now, tell me that ain't insecurr
The concept of school seems so secure
Sophomore, three yurrs, ain't picked a carurr
She like, fuck it, I'll just stay down here and do hair
Cause that's enough money to buy her a few pairs of new Airs
Cause her baby-daddy don't really care
She's so precious with the peer pressure
Couldn't afford a car so she named her daughter Alexis
She had hair so long that it looked like weave
Then she cut it all off, now she look like Eve
And she be dealin' with some issues that you can't believe
Single black female addicted to retail, and well
[Hook: Syleena Johnson]
[Verse 2:Kanye West]
Man I promise, I'm so self-conscious
That's why you always see me with at least one of my watches
Rollies and Pasha's done drove me crazy
I can't even pronounce nothing, pass that ver-say-see!
Then I spent four hundred bucks on this
Just to be like, nigga you ain't up on this
And I can't even go to the grocery store
Without some Ones that's clean and a shirt with a team
It seems we living the American dream
But the people highest up got the lowest self-esteem
The prettiest people do the ugliest things
For the road to riches and diamond rings
We shine because they hate us, floss cause they degrade us
We trying to buy back our 40 acres
And for that paper, look how low we a stoop
Even if you in a Benz, you still a nigga in a coupe
[Hook: Syleena Johnson]
[Verse 3: Kanye West]I say fuck the police, that's how I treat 'em
We buy our way out of jail, but we can't buy freedom
We'll buy a lot of clothes when we don't really need em
Things we buy to cover up what's inside
Cause they make us hate ourself and love they wealth
That's why shorty's hollerin' "where the ballers at?"
Drug dealer buy Jordans, crackhead buy crack
And a white man get paid off of all of that
But I ain't even gonna act holier than thou
Cause fuck it, I went to Jacob with twenty-five thou
Before I had a house and I'd do it again
Cause I want to be on 106 and Park pushin' a Benz
I want to act ballerific like it's all terrific
I got a couple past due bills, I won't get specific
I got a problem with spendin' before I get it
We all self-conscious, I'm just the first to admit it
Now Syleena, you just like a safe belt, you saved my life










The Roc is in the building
Homgirl Mela
So I don't miss a thing
[Kanye West]
Now the Roc in the buildin', UIC Pavilion
Two years ago I was just a civilian
Now every chick in here swear I got millions
In area codes with unidentified children
Hear barbershop talk, niggas want to kill him
Throw my hoodie on, blend in like chameleons
Take my hoodie off, they like "What up Ye, you chillin'?"
Swear to god they just like children
Just like high school, back at my school
Just like Halloween, minus the costumes
The nigga that's flickin' be the ones that's trickin'
The girls two seatin' be the ones that's treatin'
Do a test on relationships, everybody cheatin'
I used to want the Jordans most recent
Throw Jordans on the truck now just to look decent
Just for me and Mela, dirt to [??]


[Verse]
You probably one of the best damn friends I've got
About a year and we already been through a lot
Helping you with breakups, you helping me with mine
Then we end up laughing about it all the time
I guessed it's true your best friends are on the internet
I admit it I never actually met her yet
But it makes no difference she bae nigga
Hispanic Honey but she white like Kreay nigga
You know I'm just playing girl
If anybody leaves you know I'm staying girl
Because you the trillest girl alive
Right by your side till 3005
That also goes for Shyloh and Brandee
You three as sweet as some candy
Let's get turnt off some Brandy or Char
Damn Paradise if I had a car I'd already be on my way to Texas tomorrow
All in all you the best ever
We gonna stick together never have this tie sever
As for those niggas you dated
Fuck them because you can do better than they is
That goes for Damion not on the type of shit we be on
Not one to diss but for miss Palmer I'll break a prom'
Much love for you girl


[Mos Def] (Faith Evans) {other person}
Woo, Ah, Official, Official, Ah, {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Brown Sugar, Faith Evans, Big Mos {Oh oh oh oh, OH} (Wha what)
Brooklyn is in the building, hell we own the building (Wha What)
Heh, y'all just payin' rent, see I'm sayin'? {Oh oh oh oh oh, Oh oh oh oh oh}
[Verse 1]
Listen, now honey check it out ya got me mesmerized
With your black hair and your fat ass thighs
It's the way I hold it down to make my nature rise
You got me in the boutiques pickin' out your size
You make the push and I can't get it out my mind
It's that body I can't get it out my mind
Give it up ma, know it that you're down to ride
Hit the dance floor and bounce your hide
You got to bounce with mine
And let me know when your down to slide
I tell Ad to swing around to ride
Let's show you how I grind
I make it splash like a thousand times
I'm like the stars fallin out the sky, Big Mos
Flaco make your waist get coast
Make your green get smoke
Make your cat get stroke
Me and Pha make the track get dope
We stay settin' pace in the race now let's go
[Hook: Faith Evans] {other person}
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Brown Sugar)
Come on baby won't cha give it to me?{Oh oh oh oh oh} (Yeah yeah)
Make it hot like it's supposed to be {Oh oh oh oh oh} (comin' Brown Sugar)
Brown Sugar baby give it to me {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Yeah yeah)
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Oooh Brown Sugar)
Come on baby won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Yeah yeah)
Make it hot like it's supposed to be {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Brown Sugar)
Brown Sugar baby give it to me {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Hey yeah yeah eh)
[Verse 2]
It's like one, two, three, into the fo'
Brooklyn is runnin' the show, let em know
Former scramblers, my gamblers
My dirty money handlers, my jugulars
My hustlers, professional or amateur, woo (Give it to me)
C'mon (Give it to me)
I said what? (Give it to me)
Uh (Give it to me)
Uh, I got to get it all
You got to get involved
You ain't got it to give
You gotta get along (Give it to me)
C'mon (Give it to me)
I said what? (Give it to me)
Uh (Give it to me)
Yeah, and if you holdin' it
I make you let go of it
And I'm a get it
'Till my getting things is over with (Uh huh)
And why not love?
Look what you got love
You get me all charged up
Expect me to stop what? (Oh yeah)
C'mon mami, why you playin' with me?
Fix your face while your waist face say it with me (What it is, oooh)
[Hook: Faith Evans] {other person}
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Come on baby won't cha give it to me?{Oh oh oh oh oh} (Ooooooh)
Make it hot like it's supposed to be {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Uh, it's that Brown Sugar)
Brown Sugar baby give it to me {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Ah Yeah yeah)
Come on baby won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Ah ah)
Make it hot like it's supposed to be {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Yeah rock out that Brown Sugar ah)
Brown Sugar baby give it to me {Oh oh oh oh oh}
[Mos Def (Faith Evans)]
(Give it to me) Hah
(Give it to me) Yeah
(Give it to me, Give it to me) (Uh huh)
(Oooh Yeah) C'mon
(Give it to me, Give it to me) Hah
(Give it to me, Give it to me) My call right here
(Ooooh Yeah) My call comin' up right here (Oooh Yeah Yeah Yeah)
Yeah Faith let em know (It's unbelievable what Brown Sugar does to me)
Haha, yeah (It's unbelievable what Brown Sugar does to me) (What it is)
Yes Indeed (What it is, what it is now)
What it is, what it, what it is now (What it is, what it is now)
(That's what it is) (Brown Sugar) (What it is, what it is now)
Uh (What it is, what it is now) sing ya steppin' (Gimme my Brown Sugar) Ah
[Hook: Faith Evans] {other person}
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Come on baby won't cha give it to me?{Oh oh oh oh oh} (Oooh Yeah)
Make it hot like it's supposed to be {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Oh Yeah)
Brown Sugar baby give it to me {Oh oh oh oh oh} (And make it, and make it hot for me)
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Come on baby won't cha give it to me? {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Make it hot like it's supposed to be {Oh oh oh oh oh} (Oooh, Brown Sugar Baby)
Brown Sugar baby give it to me {Oh oh oh oh oh}
Brown Sugar won't cha give it to me? (Give it to me)
Come on baby won't cha give it to me? (Eeee)
Make it hot like it's supposed to be
Brown Sugar baby give it to me (Got to make it hot for me)


[Mos Def]
(if you invited me)
Yeah, Cav Love, brown sugar
Bout to set it like, yeah yeah y'all (uh huh)
Yeah yeah y'all (uh huh) yeah yeah y'all (uh huh)
(if you invited me)
Adjust my mic so I can touch it up right quick
Show 'em how Brooklyn do, you know what I mean? (no doubt)
Listen, yo
Let's start it up (start it up)
Let's get it flowin (get it flowin)
Let's make a move (make a move)
Let's get it goin (haha)
I know it's feelin like everything you want, don't it?
And you been waitin your whole life for one moment
Well baby here it is (here it is)
You better step to it (step to it)
I know you ready right (ready y'all)
Then baby let's do it (let's do it)
Put your neck to it, put your arms and legs next to it
Then put whatever else is left to it
See you're all in (all in) now you about to rock 'em
Got your focus man, now they got a problem
Who you talkin to? son right there
The man in the mirror, I see him quite clear
Do your thing Cav (yeah son)
Work it out dog (work it out)
Open up their minds (open up)
Be about yours (bout yours)
Silence everyone who ever try to doubt yours
Get your mind right (mind right)
Keep your sound raw (sound raw)
Heavy bass man (bass man)
Make it bounce more (bounce more)
Make 'em feel it from to the ceilin to the ground floor
(if you invited me)
How it sound y'all? I know it's crazy, right
I know it's crazy tight, don't ever take me light
It's Cav Love y'all (Cav Love y'all)
And that's what's up y'all (sup y'all)
I peeped in, I know exactly what you want y'all
I make it jump y'all (jump y'all)
So put 'em up y'all (up y'all)
Brown Sugar, Brooklyn, it's bout to jump off
[Hook: Mos Def and singer]
You got to (give it to me)
You need to (give it to me) (uh huh)
You better (give it to me)
(give it to me) ha ha, brown sugar
Leave the ground shook up (uh)
Got the world sweatin like fiends without cook up
Come on, you know you really wanna (give it to me)
You better (give it to me)
You got to (give it to me)
(give it to me) brown sugar, ha
Lick your lips to it
Work your hips to it (ha)
And steady rockin like this to it
[Mos Def]
It's like one, two, three, and to the four
The brother Cavvy Cav is here so let him know
This for my hustlers (my hustlers)
This for my scramblers (scramblers)
This for my sexy mamis (sexy mamis)
This for everybody (everybody)
Bang it at any party and watch 'em rock to it
Bounce some pop to it, this here's hot music
Duke I'm not losin, you need to stop foolin
I know the game very well boy I'm not stupid
Sharp and smart movement, applyin a heart to it
Came here to get the ghetto blocks movin
(if you invited me)
And after rockin in the porch and backyards movin
Keep it crackin cuz I love the way that y'all do it
[Hook: Mos Def and singer]
You got to (give it to me)
You need to (give it to me)
You better (give it to me)
(give it to me) ha, brown sugar
Leave the ground shook up
Observe the way how we make it sound hit up
Like you got to (give it to me)
You need to (give it to me)
You got to (give it to me)
(give it to me) Brown Sugar
Lick your lips to it (huh)
Work your hips to it (yeah)
And steady rockin like this to it like
Damn baby, damn baby, damn baby, damn
Ooh ahh, ooh ahh ooh ahh
Ooh ahh, ooh ahh ooh ahh
Damn baby, damn baby, damn baby, damn baby
Ooh ahh, ooh ahh ooh ahh
Ooh ahh, ooh ahh ooh ahh
Damn baby, damn baby, damn baby, damn baby
Ooh ahh, ooh ahh ooh ahh
Ooh ahh, ooh ahh ooh ahh
Damn baby, damn baby, damn baby, damn baby
If you invited me
If you invited me


[Mos Def (Talib Kweli)]
We here, we here, we here (yes yes yes yes)
Fire code (uh uh uh uh)
Yes, huh (hey)
We roll from uh- you know (hey)
You know what time it is (get your hand out my)
You know what time it, uh
Black Star, come on ma (yeah)
Now come on ma (yeah)
Come on ma (uh)
And, listen
[Mos Def]
Yo honeys check it out, she got me mesmerized
With your black hair and your fat ass WOW
Walks over, feel your feet tap on the ground
Make a *nigga* come back like "What's happenin now?"
Hear he really promising the platinum, get down
You'll be backin it out, straight backin 'em down
With your hand on your mouth
And damn baby girl, what's that all about?
You know the ave puttin curves in the brow
On your job, all workin it out
I like how you coordinate: purse, skirt, and the blouse
Around the way, comin straight out the house
You just laid on the couch
Make a cat just pause and be "Wow"
[Talib Kweli]
Baby's body was immaculate
Sweet like my first kiss in the back of the flick
I have to insist, miss, that we chat for a bit
But your ass wanna diss
Walkin all fast like you can't stop
I need somebody to get passionate with
You just assume that I be on that supermasculine *shit*
Crackin the whip just to shut you you and fasten your lip
I just be shinin my light and they be baskin in it
I go out casually dip trip on the tragically hit
Sippin Cosmopolitans on some fashionably *shit*
Black Star in the building and it hasta be sick
BK still smokin *nigga* pass me the *shit*, what
[Mos Def, Talib Kweli, and background singers]
Stop (what up)
You got it (come on ma)
Stop
You got it (come on ma)
Stop
You got it
Stop
Brown sugar let me see you shake it out
Stop (brown sugar baby)
Ha you got it (there you go)
(brown sugar baby) you got it (work it out)
(brown sugar baby) you got it (come on ma)
Brown sugar let me see you shake it out
[Talib Kweli]
Yeah, this go out to the cats
Be workin for weeks to purchase a piece
I'm with my people hurtin to cease, it's curtains for peace
Certain keeps spurs to their knees like I'm chirpin with Tweet
Rhymes sicker than the pervert that flirt with his niece
Stop, the track lay in a hearse deceased
We don't play, my man Kanye murdered the beat
Yo the rhymin's on me, coutesy of Kweli
It's +ludacris+ how I'm +disturbin the peace+
[Mos Def]
Yeah, you ain't burnin the street
Look at how we got 'em personally thiefed
Sipped on when I get open Henny
Pen strollin on the track like Bishop Don
Or filmed on the Real World
Smoke slow, no joke, one draw I kill y'all
How many times yo do I got to tell y'all?
My next album boy I get killed off, it's real y'all
We big merger, you act like you know the deal y'all
Brooklyn, stand up and let me hear y'all
Brown sugar babe
[Talib Kweli]
Chocolate
Nubian girls rock to this (whoo)
Black Star rock the whole metropolis
Brooklyn cats and you know we pocket it
Black Star got the whole world watchin it
[Mos Def]
Stop, from the Ivy League colleges
To the blocks where the drama is
And they keepin their (???) lit
Just shake it out and respond to this
And shake all of it
[Mos Def, Talib Kweli, and background singers)
Stop (uh come on)
You got it (I said come on)
Stop
You got it (yeah, yo, we said come on)
Stop
You got it (brown sugar lemme see you shake it out)
Stop (brown sugar baby)
You got it
Stop (I said come on)
You got it (look at you)
Stop
You got it (brown sugar lemme see you shake it out)
Stop (huh yeah)
Stop (come on ma)
Stop (come on ma)
Stop
Stop (come on ma) (Black Star start doin it)
Stop (come on ma) (02 y'all yeah)
Stop (come on ma) (uh yeah)
Stop (Black Star, shinin)
Stop (yeah)
Stop (haha yeah)
Stop (haha yeah)
Stop (Mos Kweli, come on)
Stop


Yeah, Kanye to the
The Roc is in the building, c'mon
Uh, if you got any little freak in you then I'mma find it
These niggas read the pimp manual, but I designed it
I see you bouncing it up and down and ooh I like it
I know you gon' be mine, because ooh I'm psychic
You said you taste like candy do, right?
Why don't you go ahead, let me get two bites
How about this: bust out the whip cream
We could have a real freaky food fight
Oh no, it's getting too tight
So I never ever say I'm rapping too tight
If I come in the middle [?], then Myleka I'mma do whatever you like


Verse 1:
Uh, any chance I get I'm on a plane
I book advance tickets and pay the fees with no complaints
In the summer its off the hook no time to waste
Just lie at the lake and I'm shoulder dry to the taste
Even though some niggas I grew up with hate
I keep a few good homies that try to stay outta jail
Tonio tell me what the bail is it'll be there
And when you get out my coke tail here
The crack head deals in my daddy
And all he seem to dream about is bad ass habits
The gun shots scream loud
So I soak the radio from upstairs to outside the house
With the extended cord no night is boring
On the front porch even if its pouring
In the summer, winter, fall, or spring
I love it when my bitches and my ballers sing
Chorus:
Chi town chi town the city where I'm from
As a kid to who I become live to get what I want
Chi town the city with the best skylines
Born there that's home there in my lifetime
Chicago show'em how we do
The best place some hate but they still come through
Chi town the city with the best skyline
Born there that's home there in my lifetime
Verse 2:
The liquor store on every corner packed
The bus run twenty-fo and my stop Jackson
Fire hydrant busted time for action
Niggas come out like its the beach in Miami
The cops chase thiefs all through the alley and don't stop
These niggas kill for rocks
If you can't stand up for your spot don't squat
Shop for a vacant lot or get shot
Cuz Chicago niggas don't play them games
When it comes to slanging them thangs for the money mane
Fuck around and get short for the playas ball
And call don Juan to flash green on yall
The pimps got the hoes pinned up on the wall
Just pass me the blunt and I puff it all
In the summer, winter, fall, or spring
I love it when my bitches and my ballers sing
Chorus
Verse 3:
Don't worry about what I do for my city
Some of yall run your mouth too much and what a pity
If you outside looking in, shit seem pretty
But its a lot of shit to do with bitch...I did it
I'm cold in the winter my mink track the flow
With the hat to match cadillacs in the snow
If its a block party the whole hood know
Niggas from 3 and 1st streets overcome the smoke
Its K Town times 22 next shine
Who label he on mine Westside nigga right
To my Southside niggas and my Eastside niggas
And my Northside niggas get high
We really don't give a fuck what side you from
Just keep on hollering out Chi!!!
In the summer, winter, fall, or spring
I love it when my bitches and my ballers sing
Chorus: say 2x


(Intro) Suicide what kind of talk is that
But I've been talking to God for so long
That I have you look in my life I guess he talking back
(Verse 1)
Yea my name is ace coming to your place if you want beef you can take it to the lake boy im so fly I kill you in the shy so many people come after me because my money just high if your money low you can’t be going to my shows cause that mean you a ho 
you spend your mothers bread
 and that’s kinda of scary if you too scared I look at you like im bloody Mary boy my verses sick turn around again and you know I got a lick you can’t be massing with my clique cause I hit them off with money and you know they turned rich we just kicked a nigga out the crew because he was a snitch we couldn’t make money and deal with a snitch east coast music you know what it do when its time to rap I bring the whole crew and hit you with that piece and nigga im neat rapping of the sheet if you got a problem ima send you off to meek (ha ha ha ha) you can't mass with my east clique
[Hook]
Ain't nobody f*ckin' with my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my muthaf*ckin'
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
As I look around, they don't do it like my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
And all these bad bitches, man, they want the
They want the, they want the
(Verse 2)
[Kanye West]
Break records of Louie
Ate breakfast at Gucci
My girl a superstar all from a home movie
Bow on our arrival the unamerican idols
When niggas did in Paris got em hanging off the Eiffel
Yeah I'm talking business
We talking CIA
I'm talking George Tenet
I seen him the other day
He asked me about my Maybach
Think he had the same
Except mine tinted and his might have been rented
You know white people get money don't spend it
Or maybe they get money, buy a business
I rather buy 80 gold chains and go ig'nant
I know Spike Lee gon kill me but let me finish
Blame it on the pigment, we living no limits
Them gold master p ceilings was just a figment
Of our imagination, MTV cribs
Now I'm looking at a crib right next to where TC lives
That's Tom Cruise, whatever she accuse
He wasn't really drunk he just had a few brews
Pass the refreshment a cool cool beverage
Everything I do need a news crew present
Steve-O swerve homie, watch out for the waves
I'm way too black to burn from sunrays
So I just meditated the home in Pompay
About how I could build a new Rome in one day
Every time I'm in Vegas they screaming like he's Elvis
But I just wanna design hotels and nail it
Shit is real got me feelin' Isrealian
Like Bar Refaeli Gisele, no thats Brazilian
Went through deep depression when my momma passed
Suicide what kind of talk is that
But I've been talking to God for so long
That I have you look in my life I guess he talking back
F*ckin' with my clique
[Hook]
Ain't nobody f*ckin' with my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
Ain't nobody fresher than my muthaf*ckin'
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
As I look around, they don't do it like my
Clique, clique, clique, clique, clique
And all these bad bitches, man, they want the
They want the, they want the
East coast music entertainment nigga





[Verse 1]
They said things would get better
But they never said i will
Tell me how you giving me good advice,huh?
But forgot to tell me that the time heals
I had to find out on my own
In a room all alone
With star projectors on the ceiling
Henny is the fuel to this rocketeer
Holding these old feelings
Cause' i'm trapped with memories around me
Visions of ya past visits here surround me
Like.. what the hell is in this drink?
Like.. what the hell did she mean? that
Break ups are like coal
And the pressure of stress would shine brighter than gold
And then may i always be reminded to always...
[Pre-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
So shine bright
Tonight
You and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye, So Alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Post-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky..
[Verse 2]
Ye
You asking me where ya heart is?
(Hmph!)
Did you even had a hard chick?
Cause' this love that you said you gave to me
Just ended up being bullshit and fakeness to me
And you still have the heart to come face to face with me
After all that you put me through?
I would've prefered slavery
Than to ever give you another day with me
Fighting sleep just to talk to you at night
Hiding the phone and being caught by my mother
Had her screaming at me like
Ugh
Something like the devil in the night time
This spell you got me on is my life line
Knowing i need sleep so i can see age 80
But my body weight 120 and i'm only age 20
Shit..
I ain't tripping though you just gave me a hit..
(shit)
Wait.. hold up something coming towards my room with a lighter
I'm praying that its the holy spirit
Cause its shining bright like a diamond!
Ye!
[Pre-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
So shine bright
Tonight
You and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye, So Alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Post-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky..


[Kanye West]
We the cause of all the commotion
Your mouth running, but where is you going?
What is you smoking, man? That ain't potent
What is you talking, man? That ain't important
Illuminati, High society
We in this party and nobody invited me
We going crazy and I always use my best sense
But it don't matter cause I stay on my fresh prince
Maxin', relaxin, shootin' some pool and
Playing some b-ball outside of the school and
Girls with they top off outside of the pool and
Whips with the drop off outside of the Louvre
You just look stupid to be ignoring
The Delorean parked in front of Armani emporium
And parties at Richie is getting risky
Victoria's Secret show, they miss me
Voices in my head, I need choices in my bed
AHHHHH, get out my fucking head
It's just me and my bad bitch
So you can say I'm on my Brad Pitt
Back to the la familia I'm aligned with
Before I betray them I slit my wrists
At the top is just us nigga
Cause I don't really trust niggas
And we made it through the hurricane
So celebrate and light the Mary Jane
We gon' make it, that's on everything
Truest girls get half naked, every spring
They saying, "Hey Kanye
We need you to go deeper than Tay Zonday,"
Cause my verses got pain, Chocolate Rain
So many lines, you photograph and it make arms break
On the radio, man I miss myself
I need to just step back and kiss myself
Baby, just step up and kiss the belt
A little lower.. that's what's up
Somebody pour her another cup
Is it too much to ask you keep your diamonds up?
I swear until my time is up
My style is sex in the shower, fresh as fuck
[Hook - Rihanna]
So shine bright tonight you and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye so alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Post-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Verse 2]
Palms rise to the universe
As we moonshine and molly
Feel the warmth we'll never die
We're like diamonds in the sky
You're a shooting star I see
A vision of ecstasy
When you hold me I'm alive
We're like diamonds in the sky
[Pre-Hook]
I knew that we'd become one right away
Oh right away
At first sight I felt energy of sun rays
I saw the life inside your eyes
[Hook]
So shine bright tonight you and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye so alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Post-Hook]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shining bright like a diamond
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
[Outro]
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
Shine bright like a diamond
So shine bright tonight you and I
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Eye to eye so alive
We're beautiful like diamonds in the sky
Shine bright like a diamond


Fake homies, fake haters dats dat stuff I dnt like
Yo thinq make believe, rappin' 'bout mii own life
Fake friends, old thinqs dats dat stuff I dnt write
Baseball, hit da ball, miss dats yo 3rd strike
Cashin' out 'n dat limozine, wat u waitin on Jordans fo
I get 'em all fo dat 84, just meet mii 'round Alanta, Goergia
Yahhh,a fake homie dats dat stuff I dnt like
Im a badd girl nd u no im just rite
I b killin tracks all day all nite
Haters hatin' dats dat stuff I dnt like nahhh
Real homies on dizzz video
Pull up yo socks nd its all dope
Hit da studio wit dat DVO
Make a new ice nd it sound like Kobe
Young Niyah nd im real doe
Mii name izz Young Niyah N.I.Y.A.H
Droppin' new tracks like bozo yahhh!!!
A hater hatin' dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
A snitch man dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
A copycatter dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
A swag disser dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Dnt like, like
Dnt like, like
A snitch man dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Dnt like, like
Dnt like, like
A coppycatter dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Fake cash dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Fake jewelry dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Fake haters dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Stalking haters on facebook stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
I got plenty diamonds nd dey all white
I will never lie nd u no im just rite
Thank God fo another day of life
Every rap dat I make man its on site
A hater man dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
A snitch man dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
A coppycatter dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
A swag disser dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Dnt like, like
Dnt like, like
A snitch man dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
Dnt like, like
Dnt like, like
A coppycatter dats dat stuff I dnt like (bang bang)
***********Young Niyah************


(Bathgate)
Bathgate, Trina
Come on, yo, yo
(Bathgate)
Do you see yourself with a rider like me
Coppin you nice things
Prada and ice blings
Do you want me
Or a rider that's gon' hold you down, ma
Bustin 'em down, ma
If you want me
(Trina)
I'll be the first to admit, I'm spoiled rotten
You need twenty G's just to take me shoe shoppin'
I only fuck with real niggas and heavy hitters
That'll fly me to Nassau just for conch fritters
If you want me, you gotta show me
Fly me to the Staples Center to see Jordan play Kobe
G.G. Hunter, Tiffany necklace
Fly me to Paris, just for breakfast
Cavolet Lexus to diamond kisses
His and her Fredrick's on our wristses
If you want me, you gotta treat me special
Every watch that you cop for me, freeze the Bezzle
Every whip that you cop for me, make it a drop
You need a wife in your life and I'm takin the spot
So if you want me, just let me know
And we can keep it on the low for sho', uh
(Trina)
Look, I'll have you in all types of whips's
Fives and sixes
If you want me
I'll be that bitch
That'll hold the steel for you
Gild and kill for you
Do you want me?
(Bathgate)
Yo, lil mama I got you anything
You can call on Bath
You and your man fight
I'm there with the four-four mag
I'll be your crutch when you need it
For slips or falls
And I got paper to take you on trips to malls
Get you Prada till you fall
Till you tired of rockin it
Tiffani ain't cold till you tired of coppin it
Cold compressor, ma, I know you tired of droppin it
Here's the keys to the truck, cause they tired of watchin it
I know this world got all types of fools
Every whip with a stash box, for the fortunate have-nots
I know you said you can get me the six
With the deep dish buckets, but you know me, fuck it
I'd rather have you in my arms to hold on
Slanted out Benz, just getting our roll on
Look, me and you from Harlem to the South, so
Let's Slip 'N Slide, ma and take it to the house, come on
(Hook)
(Bathgate)
Do you see yourself with a rider like me
Coppin you nice things
Prada and ice blings
Do you want me
Or a rider that's gon' hold you down, ma
Bustin 'em down, ma
If you want me
(Trina)
Look, I'll have you in all types of whips's
Fives and sixes
If you want me
I'll be that bitch
That'll hold the steel for you
Gild and kill for you
Do you want me?
(Trina)
If you want me, you gotta wine and dine me
And cop me the biggest diamond you can find me
Some Liberace shit that'll blind me, real shiny
Ten karats or better, nigga 'nuff, you tying me up
Cop me the ice blue Chacarda
Park the Bentley or larger in my front yard and
Shoppin sprees, coppin Frankie B's
Baby please, I stays wit major cheese
Give me the extra set of Mercedes keys
Plus the Asti Martin for 80 G's
If you want me
It take a lot of cream, a lot of bling
Boy, I'm 'bout a lot of things, uh
(Hook 2x)
(Bathgate)
Do you see yourself with a rider like me
Coppin you nice things
Prada and ice blings
Do you want me
Or a rider that's gon' hold you down, ma
Bustin 'em down, ma
If you want me
(Trina)
Look, I'll have you in all types of whips's
Fives and sixes
If you want me
I'll be that bitch
That'll hold the steel for you
Gild and kill for you
Do you want me?


Kanye
So, I'm just an old dude, but I gotta tell you that I was energized by your performance and inspired by your hard work, but the biggest compliment I can give out to anybody is that you have created something I have NEVER seen before. I gave it a name, 'PERFORMANCE DESIGNER'. Art is a worthy pursuit but I think 'design' is an even higher form of creativity. Design 'fuses' art and science, or art and problem solving, or art and usefulness, sometimes all the above in the same project. I've seen lots of really good musical artists and been around really crazy good design work, but I can't think of anybody who has combined it to such a high degree as you
Thanks for the experience
Nice
T
H




















[Produced by Kanye West]
[Verse 1]
I'm a princess cut from marble, smoother than a storm
And the scars that mark my body, they're silver and gold
My blood is a flood of rubies, precious stones
It keeps my veins hot, the fires find a home in me
I move through town, I’m quiet like a fight
And my necklace is of rope, I tie it and untie it
[Pre-Chorus 1]
And now people talk to me, but nothing ever hits home
People talk to me, and all the voices just burn holes
I’m done with it (ooh)
[Chorus]
This is the start of how it ever ends
They used to shout my name, now they whisper it
I'm speeding up and this is the
Red, orange, yellow flicker beat sparking up my heart
We’re at the start, the colors disappear
I never watch the stars, there’s so much down here
So I just try to keep up with them
Red, orange, yellow flicker beat sparking up my heart
[Verse 2]
I dream all year, but they're not the sweet kinds
And the shivers move down my shoulder blades in double time
[Pre-Chorus 2]
And now people talk to me I'm slipping out of reach now
People talk to me, and all their faces blur
But I got my fingers laced together and I made a little prison
And I'm locking up everyone who ever laid a finger on me
I’m done with it (ooh)
[Chorus]
[Outro]
And this is the red, orange, yellow flicker beat
Sparking up my heart
And this is the red, orange, yellow flicker beat-beat-beat-beat


Word up....
You know you like a Donald Goines nigga, thats off top....
(Carl Thomas) "I got bills and shit to pay, and another mouth on the
Way, I'm ghetto"
(Raekwon) Thats right, thats what I'm talkin' 'bout, tell the young boys
Out there man"
(D-Dot) "Takin' it back on some soulful type shit, Hip-Hop in it's rare
Form"
(Carl Thomas) "Spend a dollar on some wine, hand my clothes out on the
Line, I'm ghetto"
(Raekwon) "Now ya'll niggas wanna wear Polo and Hilfiger"
(Carl Thomas) "See me cruisin' down the lane, doin' two miles per hour
Baby, I'm ghetto"
(Raekwon) "Yall wanna go places like Vegas and Beverly Hills like every
Three seconds"
(Carl Thomas) "I'm not ashamed of my Fam, I can't help it who I am, I'm
Ghetto"
(D-Dot) "We just wanna talk to ya'll, tell ya'll a lil' somethin'"
(Raekwon) "I tell the story for the young black youths out there"
(Verse 1: Raekwon)
Yo, it started out in East NewYork
Where I grew up, learned how to walk
Favorite carry weapon was a fork
Older folks smoked out, straglers
Almost had to bust a Marvin Haglar
Starvin' for mine, bust three at ya
Dad fucked up consecutively
Him and some relatives is Gangsters, sellin' Pussy
Moms dropped him on the spot
Smacked me in the knot
Only he gave you was your name and these blocks
Yup, thats ya Pops
Still, thats me still
Keep it real
If it wasn't for him and his steel there probably wouldn't be a meal
We in his Caddy siliconed out, zoned out
Three days away from home he come back stoned out
Coke on the table, pressin' redial
Son I'm sendin' you home, nigga you foul
Yo, why you doin' that? but gettin' big
Half the niggas I run wit' gettin' jig
The other fifty cent balancin' a bid
Oh shit, got this bitch seeded
To God I pleaded
What should I do? knock your self off, but the God succeeded
And the most scariest part is you better have heart
Cause the Lions and wolves will rip you apart
Have Faith in your God
Shoot joints, get involved
Put tints on your windows, whip cars
Yeah, all the giants revolve
Black Clarion, ready to die for the family hard
Alcoholic vultures with toasters
Sheep skins on
Leather sleek Bombers, bums with no coats on
We livin' financially fucked up, gotta have credit
Smoke a bag of wet and set it
The block we deaded
Society's grown too black and too strong to prolong
Got my Woman with a gun in her thong
It's kinda wild how we livin'
The Devil's force has risen
We travel from here to prison
A presidency shelter for my elders
Thats real, cause we need them and they need us, thats love for ya
Leavin' on this moment
Meditatin' at Four in the Mornin'
Nigga you screamin'.....
Chorus (Carl Thomas)
I got hustlin' on my mind otherwise I'm feelin' fine, I'm ghetto
I like black tint on my car, at the park a Superstar, I'm ghetto
See me cruisin' down the lane, two miles per hour Baby, I'm ghetto
I'm not ashamed of my Fam, I can't help it who I am, I'm ghetto
(Verse 2: Madd Rapper)
Born in the gutter
A Black Pops and a Puerto Rican Mother
I kept a stolen whip and razor sharp box cutter
Known from Albany Ave to 98th and Sutter
My leathers was pleathers while ya'lls was butter
Robbin' and hustlin' anything for a profit
Thirteen years old 3 Months in Spofford
Crime, I couldn't stop it
Didn't pass the Tenth grade
School was cool but it didn't keep our rent paid
So every Wednesday me and my Dogs
Hop the train for a Ki in the Bronx
Knowin' all along the shit was wrong
Ain't the first and damn sure ain't the last
It keeps goin' on, so keep movin' on
Same old story, my Pops left
Waves and Pony's and mock necks
Tre's and Forty's and hot sex
With around the way bitches
From around the way riches, yo, my block reps
I stay Brooklyn zoned, underground is how I network
Million dollar meetings in Timbs and sweatshirts
So pardon my appearance, everythings all good
Nigga I'm just like you except I'm from the hood
Chorus (Carl Thomas)
I got bills and shit to pay, and another mouth on the way, I'm ghetto
(D-Dot - this goes out to all my peoples in the hood, in ghettos all
Around the nation and all around the World, knowhatI'msayin'?)
Spend a dollar on some wine, hang my clothes out on the line, I'm ghetto
See me cruisin' down the lane, doin' two miles per hour Baby, I'm ghetto
I'm not ashamed of my Fam, I can't help it who I am, I'm ghetto
Does anyone mind the truth ya'll?
Does anyone mind the truth ya'll?
Does anyone mind the truth ya'll?
Does anyone mind the truth ya'll?




*Coming Soon*


(verse 1-isaiah mott)
Who got ants in they pants when im in a trance. listen to me and big sean dance(A**)its all right, when a n**** come to my show we gonna start a fight. but I'mma be in hollywood, these n***** only do s*** if they could. texas flying on my diamond necklace, time to open up these presents, get me up and down and show me how to be restless. snacks on the floor, heres the keys to my door, to this thing I prefer a better way to say that I dont care if you wanna play the same game, dont throw that boomerang. its time for me to get the opportunity to sing
(chorus-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x)
(verse 2-lil wayne)
I am weezy, isaiah is aziaz. but the real good truth issss(his last name is mott)and I got rifles and they got pistols but, more I can say is that its gonna be a sharp wriffle. jay z and ye. they talk more s*** then nickels. and I gotta be really careful for the things that I love, because the devil might send a hell storm from above. that n**** need a belt, if hes gonna get some kisses, but when I f*** him up hes gonna need some stitches. but I got a whole world of b****es. and he got none but, if he get his a** up then he might be done
(chorus 2-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x)
(verse 3-jay z)
All these guys wanna play with me, but I got no muthaf***ing time for them. its scary how someone thinks that I need to read all of this forum. no explanation please, im getting confused, cause all these girls wanna f*** with you. my eyes stay black, ay what you know about that. I got a gun full of bullets please dont forget that fact, all the s*** I had said ain't gonna prefer no come backs. in football I got a major touch down. when I lost the game I never wanted to frown, but the pridelands are gonna show you how to win now uh
(chorus 3-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x)
(verse 4-big sean)
Im the biggest man of this big old town and I ain't gonna let nobody stop me now. I been through great things jumped off giant planes, I know im a star but I cannot wait(wait 4x)and that b**** gonna be playin' for me, when its time to go shes gonna read me a bedtime story. my things stay in shape, you n***** bouncin' off the wall. chill out man, before you dont get it all. westside is where im stationed when my clock is tik toking that means that its waiting whoaaaaaa
(chorus 4-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x)
(verse 5-drake)
This is the final shot, this s*** happens everytime you come around my block. this isnt over yet, you went and f***ed your time. dont you dare think im stupid cause all your exes are still in cupid, I had many things until you f***ed up your rubric. time still flyed by, things didn't change my mind flew away just like the time we spent today. audemars on backwards still got it for ya chapter, cologne on ice, man who would do something nice, when I flew by I said hi but that b**** told me goodbye(yeah)
(chorus 5-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x)
(verse 6-kanye west)
Yeah thats my b**** I got her from my town but then I said baby its about to go down. then she said (how) when I got right out of the tub and, I prefer less if only she said wasup, and I call her by the butt and she got me in a trance. I said baby you can go ahead and do yo' big dance but shes gonna be layed and im gonna have her today and shes gonna be late for her big giant race. but the lucky thing is she can still win this thing hey
(chorus 6-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x)
(verse 7-ludacris)
Luda, somebody better take it from my life before they take it from they wife and im very sorry about how you got it down this time. your running from the past that you never think about man. damn girl your a** is big, nothing is as big as this. you got TIA, I got an abyss. throw all of this money to be as funny as aka a rabbit. get out of control, dont let go of that pole. let see that body move straight from head to toe
(chorus 7-isaiah mott)
If I was ready to know how you got to go, is it time to make another roll, or do you wanna make it perfect for my home, or do you just wanna make a good show ehh. lets make a good show(4x).the endddddd



















Kanye West's 35-minute super-video, Runaway, peaks with a parade. Fireworks flash while red hoods march through a field. At the center of the spectacle is a huge, pale, cartoonish rendering of Michael Jackson's head. My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy's gargantuan "All of the Lights" soundtracks the procession, with Kanye pleading, "Something wrong, I hold my head/ MJ gone, our nigga dead." The tribute marks another chapter in West's ongoing obsession with the King of Pop.
West's discography contains innumerable references and allusions to Jackson. His first hit as a producer, Jay-Z's "Izzo (H.O.V.A.)", sampled the Jackson 5's "I Want You Back". For many, his first memorable lines as a rapper came during 2003's "Slow Jamz": "She got a light-skinned friend look like Michael Jackson/ Got a dark-skinned friend look like Michael Jackson." And when West's recent interview with Matt Lauer on the "Today" show went awry, he took to Twitter, writing, "I wish Michael Jackson had twitter!!!!!! Maybe Mike could have explained how the media tried to set him up!!! It's all a fucking set up!!!!" Like most everything else, Kanye may exaggerate the kinship, but it's real. And it's never more apparent than on Twisted Fantasy, a blast of surreal pop excess that few artists are capable of creating, or even willing to attempt.
To be clear, Kanye West is not Michael Jackson. As he told MTV last month, "I do have a goal in this lifetime to be the greatest artist of all time, [but] that's very difficult being that I can't dance or sing." He ended the thought with a laugh, but you get the impression he's not kidding. Unlike Michael, he's not interested in scrubbing away bits of himself-- his blackness, his candidness-- to appease the masses. And while Jackson's own twisted fantasies of paranoia and betrayal eventually consumed him whole, West is still aware of his illusions, though that mindfulness becomes increasingly unmoored with each newspaper-splashing controversy. The balance is tenuous, but right now it's working to his advantage. On Twisted Fantasy, Kanye is crazy enough to truly believe he's the greatest out there. And, about a decade into his career, the hardworking perfectionist has gained the talent on the mic and in the control room to make a startlingly strong case for just that.
Kanye's last album, 2008's 808s and Heartbreak, was heavy on the Auto-Tune and stark synths, but relatively light on grandiose ideas. It was a necessary detour that expanded his emotional palette; a bloodletting after a harsh breakup and the passing of his mother that manifests itself in Twisted Fantasy's harshest lows. But musically, the new album largely continues where 2007's Graduation left off in its maximalist hip-hop bent, with flashes of The College Dropout's comfort-food sampling and Late Registration's baroque instrumentation weaved in seamlessly. As a result, the record comes off like a culmination and an instant greatest hits, the ultimate realization of his strongest talents and divisive public persona. And since the nerd-superstar rap archetype he popularized has now become commonplace, he leaves it in the dust, taking his style and drama to previously uncharted locales, far away from typical civilization.
He's got a lot on his mind, too. After exiling himself for months following last year's infamous Taylor Swift stage bomb, the rapper made some of his first comeback appearances at the headquarters of Facebook and Twitter in late July. Videos of West standing on a table in tailored GQ duds while gesticulating through new rhymes (sans musical accompaniment) quickly made the rounds. The Silicon Valley visits seemed like a stunt, but they were prophetic. Forever an over-sharer, Kanye was looking for an outlet for his latest mirror-born musings. He found that platform with Twitter, and proceeded to dictate his own narrative in 140 character hits. Whether showing off exotic purchases, defending himself against the press, or going on stream-of-consciousness rants, Kanye finally had the middleman-free, instant-gratification platform he'd always wanted.
Juiced on the direct connection, he began releasing weekly songs for free online, the generosity of which would be moot if the songs didn't deliver. But they did, over and over, eventually building up the same type of superstar goodwill Radiohead pulled off with their pay-what-you-want In Rainbows release plan and Lil Wayne's free mixtape barrage leading up to 2008's Tha Carter III. So while Kanye can't sing or dance like Michael, he's making meaningful connections in a fresh, oftentimes (ahem) naked way. "When I used to finish an album I would be so excited for my mom to hear the final - final!" he wrote on November 11. "The final - final is what we used to call the... completed album with all the skits!!! I made songs to please one person... MY MOM!!! I would think... would my my Mom like this song!"
I'm not sure which song he's talking about. Because, between July and November, West seemingly decided to make My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy less mom-friendly 
and
 more of a hedonistic exploration into a rich and famous American id. At Facebook, he rapped the first verse of what would become album closer "Lost in the World", at one point changing Michael Jackson's "Wanna Be Startin' Something" refrain to, "Mama-say mama-sah Mama Donda's son," referring to his late mother. The familial allusion was left off the album. Another Facebook tune-- a brutally oedipal account called "Mama's Boyfriend"-- was also deleted, along with the vintage-Kanye-sounding "See Me Now". Such exclusions speak to the album's sharp focus-- to move everything forward while constantly tipping on the brink of frantic instability.
This isn't the same resourceful prodigy who made The College Dropout or even the wounded soul behind 808s and Heartbreak. Instead, Kanye's Twisted Fantasy incarnation cherry-picks little things from his previous work and blows them up into something less than sane. The expansive, all-encompassing nature of the album is borne out in its staggering guest list which includes mentors Jay-Z, RZA, and No ID, along with new charges like Nicki Minaj, Rick Ross, Kid Cudi, and Bon Iver's Justin Vernon. The inclusion of Minaj (who contributes the schizoid verse of her life on "Monster"), Ross (a guy known for making up his own reality as he goes), and Cudi (who's probably even more wildly self-destructive than Kanye) especially adds to the hallucinatory tone. By the time Chris Rock shows up to provide comic relief during one of the album's bleakest moments, it begins to feel as if Kanye is stage-managing his own award show with enough starpower, shock, and dynamism to flatten the Grammys, the VMAs, and the rest all at once.
Over the past few months, Kanye has intermittently tried to flush away his rep as a boorish egoist in interviews and on Twitter, which is, fortunately, impossible. Because without his exploding self-worth-- itself a cyclical reaction to the self-doubt so much of his music explores-- there would be no Twisted Fantasy. "Every superhero needs his theme music," he says on "POWER", and though he's far from the virtuous paragons of comic book lore, he's no less complex. In his public life, he exhibits vulnerability and invincibility in equal measure, but he's just as apt at villainy-- especially here.
With "Runaway", he rousingly highlights his own douchebaggery, turning it into a rallying cry for all humanity. Like many of his greatest songs, it's funny, sad, and perversely relatable. And while the royal horns and martial drums of "All of the Lights" make it sound like the ideal outlet for the most over-the-top boasts imaginable, West instead inhabits the role of an abusive deadbeat desperate to make good on a million blown promises. "Hell of a Life" attempts to bend its central credo-- "no more drugs for me, pussy and religion is all I need"-- into a noble pursuit. As a woofer-mulching synth line lurks, Kanye justifies his dreams of not sleeping with but marrying a porn star, peaking with the combative taunt, "How can you say they live they life wrong/ When you never fuck with the lights on." Inspired by his two-year relationship with salacious model Amber Rose, the song blurs the line between fantasy and reality, sex and romance, love and religion, until no lines exist at all. It's a zonked nirvana with demons underneath; a fragile state that can't help but break apart on the very next song.So after walking through here I decided that I wanted to make sure for anyone that didn’t have tickets tonight that you all could have tickets to the show. So anybody who wants to come tonight, you can have tickets for the entire office!
But I just wanted to tell you guys: I really do believe that the world can be saved through design, and everything needs to actually be “architected.” And this is the reason why even some of the first DONDA employees were architects that started designing t-shirts instead of buildings. But just to see the work actually be actualized
If I sit down and talk to Oprah for 2 hours, the conversation is about realization, self realization, and actually seeing your creativity happen in front of you. So the reason why I turn up so much in interviews is because I’ve tasted what it means to create and be able to impact, and affect in a positive way
And I know that there’s more creativity to happen. And I know that there’s traditionalists that hold back the good thoughts and there’s people in offices that stop the creative people, and [who] are intimidated by actual good ideas
I believe that utopia is actually possible—but we’re led by the least noble, the least dignified, the least tasteful, the dumbest, and the most political. So in no way am I a politician—I’m usually at my best politically incorrect and very direct. I really appreciate you guys’ willingness to learn and hone your craft, and not be lazy about creation
I’m very inspired to be in this space. Tonight, this show, if you come see it—um, I’m a bit self conscious because I’m showing it to architects. So the stage does have flaws in it. It’s an expression of emotion so give me a pass on that. And that’s basically all I have to say so thank you very much


[Verse 1 - K.K.Yo]
N*gger, I'm a young king, n*gger I'm a star
N*gger, I got b**ches, n*gger got a car
Hard than ever before, I need to ask
Can you please take off that dirty mask
Hang on, young n*gger, n*gger needs me
N*gger I'm a rapper, n*gger I'm like Eazy
I love bad b**ches, I love bad witches
I love playing Mario, discovery those glitches
Holla Holla, We Dem Boyz
I got b**ches, n*gger, tripping over our big toys
I am too loud, I make such a noise
The rap game needs me, Jeezy, I need the boys
[Hook - French Montana]
P*ssy n*gger needs my High Quality S**t, han
I live in such a chaotic world, han
I will call up all the shots
I need my High Quality S**t, boy
[Verse 2 - Miss Cypra]
Hustle hard, I got High Quality S**t
Living a chaotic life, they all know it, b**ch
I'm like Bun B, all eyes on me
The All Stars Remix, that goes to me
Had it living outside, bring the vision alive
This is what it feels like, don't know if I', alive
But all I know, is that I 'm here
And now I know, home is near
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Rick Ross]
We them n*ggers at the park, we just wanna ball
We got all these b**ches round us, they all wanna crawl
Blast for me, the last word from my n*gger
The lights go, that is what makes sound trigger
They don't know where I am, I guess I have hidden
Don't wanna scare them, they just know I am kidding
The birds fly up high, heading up to the sky
The police are not here, I'll give cocane a try
[Verse 4 - Hairy Joe]
Hee hee hee hee hee, ho ho ho ho ho
I like the Teletubbies, my favourite one is Po
Ho ho ho ho ho, ha ha ha ha ha
I like apples but, my favourite's banana
Doo doo doo doo doo, dee dee dee dee dee
I like ladybirds, I don't like bumblebees
Ha ha ha ha ha, hey hey hey hey hey
Yesterday was Friday, Saturday's today
[Hook]
[Verse 5 - Tyga]
They all gotta shut up, I'm balling in the game
I am the best one, everyone else is lame
Had you met me here, you wouldn't have met me there
I am like a champion, I never play fair
But I don't really care, I don't need thirty b**ches
But if I need to grow, I will need a pair of britches
Bring the T, to the Y, then goes G then A
It is 4:00am, still party today
[Verse 6 - Macklemore]
Now that's what I'm saying
Telling you to shut up
Bring up your vagina
Bring your bum up
I need the girl
I need her now
I need her more
Then a calf needs a cow
10
9
8
7
Run away or you might end up in haven
6
5
4
3
Britney needs to know I got all eyes on me
2
1
Nothing left
Bang goes the bullet, explode what was left
They don't have workers to diss in their hay
But they gotta know I wanna party today
[Hook]


Verse One [Mashonda]:
Every time you were around me baby
Boy you know you drive me crazy
And I really wanna be your lady
That's all baby, nothin' else
I been watchin' you for a few years
Every time you come around, I just stare
There is somethin' I gotta make clear
All I want you to do is
Chorus
Hold me, hold me (hold me)
Show me that you do (that you do)
Wanna get to know me too
Hold me, no more lonely
I'm with you (I'm with you baby)
Verse Two:
We been spendin' more time together
Gettin to know each other better
Baby I am down for whatever
Slowly fallin love
Cause you treated me like a princess
Wit you, don't have to worry 'bout stress
And I really have to confess
You're the best baby
Chorus
Verse Two [Kanye West]:
See none of the girls know me, but they all want me
So when they start runnin' they mouths just hold me
And keep me in your
Prayers so these naysayers
Can't make it through out layers
I say somethin' to warm you up like California
I'm from the Chi, you from the Apple like Fiona
I'm feelin like Prince when he met Appolonia
You feelin kinda tense cause what ya friends have warned ya
Man, they hatin', if they ain't hatin, they insinuatin'
You remember when we first start datin'?
We worked at the mall
They said we like a guy with no muscles
"Oh they'll never work out at all"
And I was just that broke dude that worked next door
But can please donate some sex to the poor?
Baby, I see it
One day, we'll be drivin' in them crazy whips
I ain't gonna be workin' this grave shift 'til I'm 86
I ain't gonna be pushin' this broom
I ain't gonna be stayin' in my friend's room
That's only one bedroom that I call my lair
We was V.I.P
Very Imaginary Playas
See why we, smoke our weed
You never let these rumors come between you and me
And that's good lookin'
Plus you good lookin'
Plus the hood lookin'
So hold me down like B.I.G. held Brooklyn
[Bridge]:
Hold me down, don't go away (don't go)
Give me your love a million more days
In your arms, I wanna stay (stay)
I always wanna be with you
Anything you want me to do
Baby you know I'll do it for you (you)
(Hold me, show me that you do)


[Noreaga]
97th dash 37th Ave. The corner of Queens, New York. Born 368
Leftrak City. That's where I'm from. HEY! HEY! Oh oh!
Boola feel the beat. It's incredible. On the boards!
Aye yo big face yams. What up what up
Bring it back, bring it back to N.O.R.E. huh huh
[Noreaga]
Shit, ski mask, black on
Baseball bat strong
Slap a nigga, Warren Sapp style
Get my sack on
Offense, defense
Voice box secrets
Till a nigga diarrhea, shit dollars and pee cents
I've been always, on my grind
Nickname; Poppi, Jose, Slime
You've been hatin' from the sidelines
Very low
You've been hatin' when you hear me on the stereo
See me in a video
Same as in person
See me in the hood
No crew, one person
And I ain't gonna starve on this motherfuckin' planet
Till the whole world is talkin' about the kid like I'm Janet
[Hook: Kanye & GLC] [x2]
[K] I'm everything you wish you was
[G] You and me
[K] It's just us
[G] I've been drinkin'
[K] I'm tore up
[G] So please don't make my pistols bust
[G] I got homies that's with you
[G] So trust me I'm gonna get you
[K & G] Get you [x6]
[Noreaga]
Without a record out
Shit go down don't it?
What ever go up, it gotta go down don't it?
Martha Stewart guilty
While I was in that same court house
Same Feds try to do me
Feel my Shinobi sword
And you should know me Lord
Never back down, I back down
Niggas, you should know me Lord
Cowards fall on me
I can see them fallin' now
Raising your angles, write rhymes, pourin' out
Uplift with a curse and a gift
Rap for life
Read scripts
Load my clips
And Noreys still doin' my thing
Knock niggas out that's bigger than Yao Ming
[Hook]
[Noreaga]
I was innocent
Campin' in a tentament post
My coat cinnamon
Cooked it like beef that roast
I told shorty, get your talkin' on
You can't sell crack with your Walkman on
An ex-work hustla
I use to extort in an Escort, land to discover ah
Quick to move another place
Lawyer beat another case
Got Bruce off so he break yous all
Militainment and I'm Coups with the roofs off
We load from the dick
So off they radar
I just bought an AR
AK to spray y'all
Eat food, man I never stops
Whether you down with Militainment or not
I be forever
[Hook]


[Chorus: Eminem]
Didn't use to have to
Primetime, yeah this is my time to shine
This is the time that's mine
But you pricks took it away & now it's gone, but not for long
Cause I'm coming back strong
Gun in hand, shield on my arm
I'm a hurricane, yeah I'm a hurricane
Don't fuck with me cause I'm a hurricane
And I'm coming back, yeah, I'm coming back, yeah, I'm coming back
[Verse 1: Eminem]


[Bridge] Beyoncé
Right now
Right now
[Hook] Beyoncé
I'm worth it
I'm worth it
I'm worth it
I'm worth it
[Verse 1] Famous Kels
She's my queen I'm her king
Ain't no fucking with me
I remember the first time I say you up in those jeans
I give it all up too ya'll
Cause you know you my boo
And I ain't have a clue
Your love is like voodoo
We got matching tattoos
My boy said I'm a fool
They said that you was cruel
But I'm breaking the rules
Now its time to review
In the streets I out grew
Quit the game all for you
Shopping sprees in Peru
Gucci Louie Prada Dolce I buy it all for you
Bought you your first Mercedes
Cause I thought you was lazy
But since you had my baby
You won't have to work lady
Wifey type you all ready know your love drive me crazy
[Hook] Beyoncé
He said
He said
He said
He said
Im worth it
Im worth it
Im worth it
Im worth it
[Verse 2] Famous Kels
Damn right your worth it
Fuck me good on purpose
Make your ex so jealous
Cause you driving reckless
Baby let me tell you that I promise
Cause our love is so platonic
Cause you know you was nervous
Cause I am ah so famous
Ex models yeah I dated
Groupie girls yeah I tainted
Fans see me yeah they fainted
Ex girls they want to hate it
Because they best friends be like damn I wanna see him naked
I know I'm right
But sweetie you alright
Its just been me and you no reason to fuse and to fight
You ask me I'll tell ya
I just might put in flight
If you feeling so right
Marriage just might be right
[Hook] Beyoncé
He said
He said
He said
He said
I'm worth it
I'm worth it
I'm worth it
I'm worth it


[Verse 1: 50 Cent]
Wise came home Far Rock edge, man; I figured I'd drop in (WHOOOO!)
Bless him with a lil' short change to go shoppin'! (YEAH!)
Buzzer don't work! - Elevator shitty staircase pissy
His sister ran out huggin' on a nigga, she missed me! (what?)
Momma living room, she sipped Cristy till she was pissy! (whoooo!)
Told 'em niggas tried to blaze me last night but they missed me
In the CL, some niggas wet the driver side door, (uh-huuuh!)
I had my vest on. - I put the fuckin\' pedal to the floor! (AAAAAHHHH!)
Her son facin' her - for a less or tens, he hurtin'
They be hollerin' like: "50, let us put some work in!"
Today's a nice day if tonight's a nice night, - somebody gon' die
It is what it is my nigga; why ask why?!
See? I stay with some s*it in the street
But the niggas Uptown love me like they love Pistol Pete. - You heard me?
[Interlude: 50 Cent]
Haha, haha!
BRAAAAAAAAAAAAATT!
Y'all n*ggas eat that, n*gga!
Live with that!
[Verse 2: Scarface]
I started small time, dope game, pushin on the corner
Twenty cent cook-up, fifty flippers if you want 'em
Full of formaldehyde, my clothes wreakin marijuana
Cops rollin up on us, my neighborhood's like a sauna
Pistol-grippin, insurin won't nobody run up on us
But if they do, fuck 'em, we murderous nickel-dome 'em
I ain't playin no games, I'm on a mission fo' the change
Motherfuck bein a lame, I'm ten toes in the game - deep
I can't slip, this whole world want me sleep
See I hustle like a predator and prey on the weak
And playin for keeps, cause see, it's a thin red line
Between a nigga gettin his, and me gettin mine
And plus I'm a nigga with that feelin like it's my time
And anybody standin in the way of that is dyin
I bust nine, how many times I gotta warn you?
I ain't the one, be pushin buttons in the sight of my gun
I'm the real live version of the Corleone family
So I spit this clearly, so you hoes'll understand me..
[Verse 3: Lloyd Bank$ {50 Cent}:]
I had my eyes on the Mascara, - mami, the Maybelline queen;
Dolce Gabana, Fergano gettin' choked in the sauna. [explosion]
She had a - dot on her face like Madonna, (Madonna!) dressed like she date a designer. (designer!)
Looks so good, I spent a day with her mama. {whoooo!}
Tried to break her, bring her, beat her, eat a plate of lasagna, {uh-huuuuh!}
Grab some paper, bring the heater in case it's haters behind her. {AAAAHH!}
They call me "Bandana Bank$", baby, I clap your homie, homie
Then I'm through with her, - go holla at Macaroni Tony, {TONY YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYO!}
In the back with a few cup of Henny, baggy pants to tuck the semi
In case you get to fuckin\' friendly. - My clique as tough as any! {any!}
Stuntin' plenty, I don't trick a penny; {haha!} get your own shit!
Callin' me with questions will only get you a phone click. - ! (!)
[Hook: Scarface]
I can squeeze without blinkin', I'm a cold-blooded nigga
Bank robber (ooooh) I'm a natural born killer
Drug dealer, anything it took to survive
Even if it took a nigga to die, I'm a gangsta


Ntro
Uh...yeah
Lets go....YO!
Hook
All you others wanna find me?
I'm on that second base
That second base
So you're beneath my place
All you others wanna find me?
You better look a lil closer
Cuz I am not a poser
I flick em off my shoulder
Verse 1
Knock,Knock on the the door
Look it's the kid none of ya'll seen before
Sleepin on me cuz I make em boredd
Beat goes so hard my cock is sore
Ooh look at you stab me in the back
Thinkin you bulletproof
But you're not I'll sneak up from behind I'll go
Doggystyle on all of you
I run my own game and I don't even make a dollar
They say I can't get any smaller,but my fans still give a hollar
I'll see who's still here tomorrow
It's been awhile since i've been in my zone but now look I'm back
Killin beats and socializing feelin vybes and got lyrics
Fresher then a tic-tac
I'm lengthless with no stretch homie I dnt even need a ruler
I'm about 10 times your sizes but With a heart that's way much cooler
I'm a easter bunny born in april so you better bet i'll fool ya
Bring my book of rhymes and lyrics make you all sit down and school ya
Hook
All you others wanna find me?
I'm on that second base
(Where?)
That second base
(Oh)
So you're beneath my place
All you others wanna find me?
You better look a lil closer
(Uh-huh)
Cuz I am not a poser
I flick em off my shoulder
All you others wanna find me?
I'm on that second base
(Where?)
That second base
(Oh)
So you're beneath my place
All you others wanna find me?
(Yeah)
You Better leave me alone
Like Al Capone
I'm In My Zone
Verse 2
Tick tock eyes on the clock
Haters waiting for the day I stop
But I won't stop until My last beat drops
And my hip goes out so I cannot hop
Hip-hop whats that?
I came back with something I call rap
And it makes me sick to hear what ppl like to call music
I like to call it crap
Like ooh who do you think that you are
Run your mouth like a battle scar
To be honest I don't care about who you are
Run your mouth like a engines car
I said you run your mouths like a cars engine
I must be popular cuz I have a name these haters just love to mention
Ooh you know I'm itchin
I stratchin haters out like I'm the one addicted to crack
And if you have a knife in your hand I'll know when not to turn my back
I've got haters inside goodybags and I eat em all for snacks
All I hear is you suck dude just stop
Come on what kind of diss is that?
You think you're funny don't you?
Well homie you're a clown
But not the funny type so shut your mouth and just sit down
I'm on that second level ishh but I'm still here underground
I'm the white rapper they all hate cuz they know I have a unique sound
OUTRO
Uh
That's Something You Don't Wanna Do
That's Something You Don't Wanna Do
Don't Get Me Alone
Don't Let Me In My Zone
Uh
That's Something You Don't Wanna Do Boy
That's Something You Don't Wanna Do
Get Me Alone
Don't You Ever Ever Let Me In My Zone
Like UH
Yeah
I'm In My Zone
Yeah
I'm In My Zone
Yeah
I'm In My Zone
In My Zone
In My Zone
In My Zone
I'm In My Zone
I'm In My Zone


This is my problem with interviews, you know. What if you did music and someone else could come in and change your words around and then release it to the radio? And you don't even get a chance to listen to it before they dropped it to radio. That's how interviews are. You, you say what you say and then you'll get paraphrased and then they'll do shit like, if you say a joke, most jokes are inappropriate. They's, they're like fucked up things that you say but it's kind of funny the way you word 'em. And if you take away, you know, the setup or the punchline, you just sound absolutely crazy. Which is, they love to do that because I love to joke and I give them too much and then my shit don't be like all dry ass interviews and stuff, like I don't have media training or whatever. And then, so they take that, and I, and I told Gabe, I said look, well I wanna, I wanna do uh, I wanna get approval over the shit, just because I wanted to be as entertaining as possible, I want people to have the information. And you know, like a lot of magazines, they got real uptight, they like, "no you 'on't get approval, you 'on't get approval, you don't get approval." So, you know, when I say the line 'bout The Rolling Stone, I don't have a problem with Rolling Stone. I really appreciate the fact that they did put me on the magazine and I realize that you know I was halfway out of my mind for the past two years and shit. I was, you know, off that drug called fame and shit like that, I was really like, I was like a little crazy, you know what I'm sayin'


[Intro: Rhymefest talking]
What's up dawg? What you been on? Aw really? Enjoying your life huh? Summer school? Man you don't even gotta go through all of that homie. Just listen to what I gotta tell you man, let me spit this here. Come here, check it out
[Verse One]
It's hard to comprehend a brother like me
Living with your old girl, no bills, went free
I gotta worry about this man trying to evict me
Smokers want to stick me
Chicks wanna lick me
[?]
Rumors going to war every night on my block
Now I know who's gun it is just by hearing the shots
{gun fire} That's Bo
{gun fire} That's Little Mack
{heavy machine gun fire} Damn baby who the fuck is that?!
I can tell from the way that he bust they ain't from round here
Kids come up missing, you'll prolly find 'em around here
Public system graduating schools of thugs
We didn't have no swim team only pools of blood
While white boys make bombs, my niggas show up late for prom
With two baby moms, one on each arm
Only 18, pulling up in stretch Hummers
We didn't graduate though, I'll see your ass next summer
[Hook]
In time, if you listen to Rhyme you will find
Yo' life, yo' choice, yo' mind
If you ready to win then shorty it's yo' time and
In time, if you listen to Rhyme you will find
You can have anything you want
You can live any dream you want
[Verse Two]
Look man, don't let this industry take you
You did enough shows for free
Tell that promoter he gotta pay you
I done seen fools fall to their knees, thank god
Sell drugs for studio time, losing they job
Now you being faced with hopelessness
They your homies and dip
Why you acting like you want this shit?
You prolly won't get rich, won't sex that chick
Won't go platinum
Prolly make an album and quit
And you know you got child support running on stage
"Where my ladies at?!"
Chicks ain't giving you no support
Called an A&R but you ain't got no rapport
Working at the Ramada, "Bellboy hold that door!"
Sometimes you gotta hit the bottom though to know where to climb
Take that bull in your life, roll it up in a rhyme
Depend on God and He'll see you through
Believe in yourself or man how am I gonna believe in you?
It's just...
[Hook]
[Verse Three]
It ain't nothing like life, these friends, this wife
This mic, this big ass house that's this tight
Nothing like a check from Jive
Going to the gas station and getting more than three dollars on pump five
Nothing like a call from the dad I never met
Talking to him like it's cool, I ain't upset
I can Fight With The Best but I can only go so many rounds
Ain't nothing like my homies holding me down
It wasn't nothing like my mother's support
Coming with me court, watching my shorty when I had to record
Send her the plate with the turkey and stuffing
It meant a lot to me even though you probably thought it was nothing
The only way I can be free is to be something
The only way people gon' see is when they see something
I'ma represent my part of the plan
And make something out of nothing
Something y'all can hold in your hand
Baby
[Hook]


[Mase]
I'm in party mode now, uhh, you don't stop
C'mon, with the, with the, c'mon
D-Dot, c'mon
Chorus: Mase
Is it you? (Y'all the ones the ladies love to touch)
Is it true? (Y'all be whylin in the club too much)
Is it you... Made Men, Made Men
Is it you or is it Deja Vu?
Is it you? (Y'all the ones with all the money and all)
Is it true? (Y'all the ones that show the honies a ball)
Is it you... Made Men, Made Men... c'mon, c'mon, c'mon
Is it you or is it Deja Vu?
[Made Men]
Yeah, two thous', new styles, fly as fuck for days
Fry chocolate thai, high and shit for days
Benz 6, V-12, 19's for shoes
Mens thick with a team known to squeeze the uz'
Cute girls, jewels whirlpools and champagne
I ran game, Made Men's on they brain
Afficianado, cigars and Henny bottles
Frijole corazon gatos with hot Glocks though
Twist you like a braid, canary glaze that's made
Baguettes don't shine? Then get it appraised
Perform for MC's with Bentley's and M3's
Burn bomb trees with mamis, sit under palm trees
[Cardan]
Some niggas talk like P Cardy, won't grab, three shotty
Let off three bodies, platinum three parties
I move quicker than, half of the niggas that's witcha and
Move swifter than, cats who Jack the Ripper so
When I say check this, respect this
If you ain't with me and Made Men, get off the guestlist
You see I'm from a place where it's nuttin but beats
Nuttin but cee-lo where pushers pay the dice off defeat
I got the Rove' out the shop, take the Chrysler off the street
Too much light and too much heat, pick a fight with these freaks
Got a hundred Harlem brothers that'll daze y'all crew
But this is the remix to the Deja Vu
Chorus
[Mr. GZUS]
Je-sus with Mase, pass hay, watch us blaze it up
If you don't give a fuck, take your hands and raise em up
It's the knock-right, hit from D-Dot got
Everybody bouncin, steamin up ounces
Ain't no beef, just liquor, and reefer that's cheap
It's cheat or defeat, your girl is quicker to leave
I wanna know can she do dat - if it's you, true dat
Meet me in the back after this track
International, money magnificence
To go against this, I think you know the consequence
I rock Kangols, my link dangles
Got more Cash than Tango, from my mad flows
[Big Pun]
Yo, yo, yo
Hey yo my shit is fatal, one blow, I make your chin to-ma-to
Don't make me run up in your crib and kill what's in the cradle
I'll make you wish you was dead, push a brick through your head
Rush my click through your set, suck my dick, lick it yeah
You the worst I ever heard, cursed with severed nerves
And my words to every verse like feathers to a bird
Rhyme compatible, my nine'll rip the spine outta you
Why should I battle you? You couldn't define one parable
I'm thug animal, Hannibal Lect', real cannibal
Eatin that ass like fire and gas, my shit's flammable
Frightenin in fact, you know niggas is bitin my raps
Writin exactly the same like they recitin my back
Niggas carbon copies, always mockin my shit
But can't nobody stop me, get up on top of me dick
I'm surprised if you thick, and I ain't with gettin caged in
But I'm a Made Man, so I'll be ought by the A.M., what?
Chorus 2X


I ain't innocent, Jesus walked me to the Grammys
Thank you God, now I can sin again!
I had the "Jesus Walks" sample and a dope idea
If K hooked it up this could be the song of the year
So I give my nigga the sample and the joint took off
But the verse that 'Fest did somehow got lost
Somewhere got tossed
Homie, I ain't mad at ya, doin' your thing
Let every man be his own king
With no fear ladies and gents
What you finna hear
"Jesus Walks" Rhymefest verse world premiere
[Hook]
(Jesus walks)
God show me the way cause the Devil trying to break me down
(Jesus walks with me)
And the only thing that I pray is that my feet don't fail me now
[Verse]
You know what the Midwest is? Young and restless
Where coppin' that WORK is your best investment
And none of my niggas gonna answer questions
Cause none of my niggas know who the feds is
We hustle hard for dollars like we grew up checkless
Pops wasn't around, mom's smokin' the breakfast
Before I sold weed, we was roach infested
The two girls downstairs was both molested
I promise if I ever made it out of this hellhole
I wouldn't sell blows
I would just sell flows
My niggas had Nikes, I had Pro Wings shelltoes
Kids knew it was Payless, Footlocker ain't sell those
I got a girl that ain't my girl
That got my baby so she bug me
She ain't even cute so my baby probly ugly
Man sometimes I feel like God don't love me
Maybe the problem is I don't love me
My granny think I'm crazy, the streets is a virus
Sometimes I just want to rest in peace like Osiris
Wait, rest in peace like Osiris


My name is Johnathan Rhee
I'm 6 foot three
I live in a tree
Just like a chimpanzee
I'll shoot a three
And make it nicely
I just hit my knee
On a piece of debris
I'm so fast you can't see
You just wish you were me
Cause I'm Johnathan Rhee
Nigga


[Coming Soon]


[Intro: Kanye West (Monica)]
Yo Monica, I know you shootin' that video in there
Aw, you just ain't gon' let me in the video, huh?
No no, i-it's me, Kanye West (It's funny how the tables turn)
You know, th-throw your diamonds up? Through the wire? (turn)
You ain't seen my video, heh? (turn, turn)
You know, I- like me and Missy we did this song
Together whatever
Um, okay, well
[Interlude: Kanye West]
I can't keep knockin' and keep rockin' and keep poppin'
I keep droppin' and keep poppin' and keep rockin'
But I can't keep knockin' and keep knockin'
And keep poppin' and keep rockin'
Let's get it poppin'
[Missy Elliot {*overlaps Kanye West Interlude*]
So upset
This that hot shit
Uh huh, yeah
New Monica!
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Now you ain't let me in the video (true)
Play me like Semi did Arsenio (true)
I'm Kanye from the Chi city yo (who?)
I'm the nigga that did the beat yo
You know we too old for this like Holyfield still boxin'
Ya will watch and I look back, ya still watchin'
What he got that I ain't got? I got Benz
I got rims, not 20s but I got 10s
Real real clean, come and get your rear wheel cleaned
She did what with who? Man I hear things
Like when I was doin' my dirt and she heard things
Up worryin' while she wore her ring
Now she got a fling and where's her ring?
That [?VVS?] is in the purse now, feelin's in the dirt now
Somebody buyin' the bar, quenchin' her thirst now
Somebody bought her a dress, she in the church now
And what's worse now, she ain' gotta work now
She cuffed an NBA player from the first round
I grabbed her neck and made it hurt to breathe
She said "Security, this jerk could leave"
And uh
[Verse 2: Monica]
So do just what you want anytime that you really like
I put a payment on my place, you'll be sleepin' alone tonight
So don't you come knockin'
[Hook (Monica)]
Knock knock knock, stop knocking
Don't come knocking at my do'
(Don't you come knockin' at, whoa)
Ring ring ring, let the phone stop
I don't want you calling me no mo'
[Kanye West {*overlaps chorus*}
Yo this the remix, and I'm Kon the Louis Vuitton Don
Or you can call me Louis XIV
By the way cause I dropped out of the fourteenth grade
[Verse 3: Monica (Kanye West)]
I used to be so gone
You were someone I could lean on
My life support system (uh huh)
And I thought I couldn't breathe, ah ah
When you used to leave, yep (ye) yep (ye)
I see you put yo clean on
Big chains, gold teeth, and yo gleam on (Roc-a-Fella chain)
All night wanna be gone
Wanna tell me stay home like I got a [fuckin'] ring on
Now you say I'm not your wife, right right (you like wifey)
So why should I be chillin'? goodnight goodnight (oh)
Now pack up my things for a flight (ok)
I got a place and it's fixed up nice
So don't come knocking at my do' (aw man)
I got company comin 'round fo'
So whoa whoa, haha, yeah
[Hook (Kanye West)]
I don't want you callin' me no mo'
Knock, knock, knock, stop knocking (yeah)
Don't come knocking at my door
[Interlude: Kanye West]
And I can't keep knockin' and keep rockin'
Let's get it poppin' and that's stoppin'
[Hook]
Ring ring ring, let the phone stop
I don't want you calling me no mo'
[Outro: Kanye West]
What up Really Doe, I see you
Hey the [?Loc?] gon' be mad as hell when we go on tour
You see I already got GLC up outta there
Aw we finna blow man
You know we got the game on smash
John Monopoly, Don C
Plain Pat what up?
Yeah, you know I got that boogie
And Jay boogie well
Yeah, what up Roc?
Yeah, [?Arrow Stah?]
What up Tiffany, I see you
[Outro: Monica {*overlaps Kanye West*]
Changed my locks, took my things
Can't come in
Changed my locks, took my things
Can't come in
I don't want you calling me no mo'


[KJ]: Well this is pretty exciting and fabulous for me, I feel so excited to have you here, because it's like we've been roommates for, like months, and I'm so excited that I've gotten to know you, so, like I have...but there's alot about you that many people don't really know about you, that I think that, .... Why here? Why now?
[KW]: Well, as everyone knows, its sometimes difficult for me to deal with the press, they've, it's almost it this point it's like an agenda, you know, to write me into this sort of story, and I felt this was a place I could express myself with love and no agenda.
[KJ]: You have this love affair with my daughter,[]
[KW]: She brought us something to drink that you can’t drink on daytime TV...[]
[KJ]:
[KW]: The only brand right now is family...
[KJ]:[...]have created, with God, this family
[KW]:[.] kids weren't monitoring every day what Kim Kardashian was wearing, or where Kanye West was going on vacation, and thinking that somehow that was the mark of success
[KW]: I thought it would be really cool on her grandmother’s season finale to bring a picture of North...


[Intro - Diddy]
People tell me that I should go life a better f**king life
People tell me that I should go life a better f**king life
People tell me that I should go life a better f**king life
And your f**king ears get blown when I shout this out f**king twice!
[Hook 1 - Eminem (Twista)]
I don't understand why
You would wanna leave me (Oh no)
I just wanna know why
I lost everything I had (The fate is the limit)
This s**t continues whilst I lose my breath (And faith is the truth)
If you want me, take a step
Take a step closer to me or Lay Down now
[Verse 1 - Miss Cypra]
First class first blast first time I start to rap
Back in '85 they were alive and gave a clap
I layed down, gave a frown last time I saw you
If I never rapped in class this I wouldn't have to go through
I get high when I spy and when I know I'll die
And I know I will die when I cannot try
The people 'round me don't give a s**t or even care
That this life of fame's still lame and it's just not fair
Oooooohhhh La laaa
I check it right 'til you fight for your race
And when you make yourself die and rely forever on your fate
[Hook]
[Interlude - Diddy]
Little f**ker, I ain't f**king with you
Yes, you heard that f**king rant, didn't you?
[Verse 2 - Kanye West (Twista)]
I got drunk and then all these girls touch my junk (Owwww)
I got money, got laid and had nothing to pay (Woooo)
Spoiled love, spoiled hate and I lose my fate
And all them people like "Why the f**k he in that state?"
Models murder me, you and me, we are a 'We'
And we together smoked forever on the streets
Woooaaaahhh
I pay up the bets and I fold
That f**ked me up so now I'm cold
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Ol' Dirty Bastard]
They calling me f**king Dirty
I f**king give a f**k
If you wo' f**k with me
You f**king out of luck
You old guys with the drunkies
Better stay away from monkies
They the junkies they the cells
If you no watched you would've fell
Down in Hell, were they run of you
And kick you
And punch you
And shove you
And smunch you
And take you
And fake you
And bill you
And kill you
I need another life, gimme one, will you?
[Hook]
[Outro - Diddy]
Lay Down, Lay Down
Lay Down, Lay Down
Lay Down, Lay Down
Lay Down




G-G-G-G-G-G-Unit!
I'm from the murder capitol where they murder in khaki suits
G-G-G-G-G-G-Unit!
I'm from the murder capitol where they murder in khaki suits
[Verse 1]
'64 Impala, 100 spoke Daytons
Drive in '95 tryna run away from Satan
Used to dribble rock as a kid like Jason
When my mother was at church every Sunday like Mason
Prayin' for her baby boy, sittin' in a Lazy Boy
Like "I'ma beat the shit out this crazy boy"
That was '97, I was in high school
Nobody told me my grandmother would die soon
I mean, Jesus Christ knew
Why he ain't pull me on my pants, let me tell me big momma was fightin' cancer
Four months passed, Jesus never answered
So I looked at gangbangin' like "uh, I'ma chance it"
Red rag in my pocket, Cedar Block on my neck
For the last seven years I've been a prophet of death
And even though I got shot in the chest
I persevered, now Jimmy Iovine' name on the bottom of my checks
So it's G-Unit West
[Verse 2]
I'll never forget when my brother died, forget when my cousin died
Forget 9/11 when all of them mothers died
So fuck Sadam, Bin Laden and them other guys
Told my baby sister "pray when your brother fly"
And any other nigga tryna make my mother cry
You will get a grave for that shit Joe Budden tried
You seen High Top in Colors, right?
We nothing alike, cause me, I take motherfuckas lives
Got a thousand niggas that wanna ride
And they all follow me like I'm the son of God
So I raise the dead in my songs, spray lead if I'm wrong
But I shall break bread with God till I'm dead and gone


[Chorus: Z-Money]
One mor day and i promise i'll be more blunt than ever
Bitch this is my World and Fuck up if i wanna
The Crucifier told me to Make It Rain Money
Make It Rain, Make It Rain
Make It Rain, Make Make Make It Rain Money (MONEY!!!)
[Verse 1: Z-Money]
Open the Door to your heart I'm gunna Steal It
Goin' to jail I Don't give a Shit
All i want for Christmas is a Big Booty Ho
Tell Her Suck my Dick, Girl U Already Know
Go tell the Pope Kiss My ass
Niggas Thinkin' i'm Retarded
I Say Shut the Fuck up Before i Cut yo Neck
Pussy so tight all she does is scream
Hit you wit a beam
Everything ain't what it seem
Cum to my Place for Dinner
Fuck Me Like i'm a Winner
Kiss My Sass
Kiss my Ass
One More Word
P.U.S.S.Y
P Plague of Bad Bitches Doin' me
U Who Tried to Kill Me
S Shit what You're a Piece of
S Stevie Wonder Whatcha Want Bitch
Y YMCA Exsercize And Piss
[Chorus 2x: Z-Money]
[Catchy Music]
S.M.D
MAKE IT RAIN MUHFUCKA
[Chorus 4x: Z-Money]


[Mase]
Uh, uh, uh, yo
Harlem World gon' make me rich
Harlem World gon' take your bitch
Harlem World is the place to be
This M-A-Dollar Sign-E
[Stase]
Yo, hold up keep it steady
Y'all chicks ain't really ready
Y'all sweating Stase already
And I ain't pushing a Chevy
I ain't even lyin', I ain't even sign
People want my back
Yo, what's up with that?
See, running out the mouth gon' get your face slapped
Tell me do you like what you see
Is it tight as could be?
No, Mase ain't writing for me
And I have no desire to be
Or have fake chicks rhyme wit me
Uhh, you ain't my man, you ain't down wit me
You ain't certified Harlem World get from 'round me
And Mase my big brother thats why you surround me
You could drop me off the same place you found me
Cuz it won't be long before you have to crown me
If I'm chicken, I'm jerk chicken and we're flickin'
And men die with chicks, so am I worth kissin?
1 - I hate the ones that don't suck no (ow)
I hate the ones who date them dumb chicks
I hate the ones who wanna get you for your dough
Wanna be a (ow)? Be a (ow), on the low
I hate the ones that don't suck no (ow)
I hate the ones who date them dumb chicks
I hate the ones who wanna get you for your dough
Wanna be a (ow)? Be a (ow), on the low
[Loon]
Yo, it's only right that you hold me tight
Even though we fight, because the dough be like
When the dough be right
You know we havin a ball
Sippin on cristall and all
Chicks smile and all
Yo' dealing wit fishkill and oil
Ice on the wrist dial and all
But nevertheless, boo there was never a test
That stopped me from loving you best
I'm hypnotized, girl by your hips and thighs
Definitely your lips and eyes
Them chicks can slide
They tryin' to be all in the mix
Your girlfriend ballin' a 6, and holdin' my tip
But boo, there's only room for 2
Until I get the coupe for you
You know how I do
And then you could scoop your crew
And do what you wants to do
Repeat 1
[Naughty]
Naughty, Naughty, Naughty
I went from cradle to crawlin', to a stroller
Way I was strollin' and hopin when I get older
That I be holy
Kicks to camp *** floatin' with Naught'
A boat and a yacht
Was all that I was hopin to rock
As a young kid stacked and eventually learned
That money was made for that
Never meant to be burned
Why lets all get this
Using that 'I murder you face'
I be the youngest nigga pushin' a convertible eight
But thought *** to that they gon' taste this ***
Got some honies to the back so they can chase my dick
When I die they'll be a headstone big as a ***
And a pack of fifty redbones diggin' me up
For the fact, played it back
And I'm tryin' to see me, a house and six floors
And peranhas a week
Got a spouse, deep throats while I'm tryin' to sleep
Lookin' out for B-4's every diamond creek
[Huddy Combs]
But you slow money, cuz it's better than no money
I only crap out when I play with your money
You know Huddy, still sittin' on old money
I only hang wit Mase cuz he keeps them hoes for me
Kick a little bit, but yo I'm no dummy
Your girl love me, so you keeping your girl from me
And tellin' lies, gettin caught in different rides
Wit different guys, stay different in different pops, what
Repeat 1 until fade


[Lil Wayne]
Young Money!
[Jay-Z]
Yea... Turn the music up turn the lights down I'm in my zone
[Ne-Yo]
Yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah...
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Fresh off the plane, konitchiwa bitches
Turn around another plane, my passport on pivot
As for what I did it, that asshole done did it
Talked it and he lived it, spitted then he shitted
I don't need to write hits, I might bounce ideas
But only I could come up with some shit like this
I done played the underdog my whole career
I've been a very good sport, haven't I, this year
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Like a mama you birthed me, Brooklyn you nursed me
Schooled me with hard knocks, better than Burkley
They say you murked me by the time I was 21
That shit disturbed me, but you never hurt me
Hello Brooklyn, if we had a daughter
Guess what I'm a call her, Brooklyn Carter
When I left you for Virginia it didn't offend ya
Cause you know I only stepped out to get dinner
[Verse 3: Ne-Yo]
Ooh it's something about
Just something about the way she moves
I can't figure it out
There's something about her
Say Ooh it's something about
Kinda woman that wants you but don't need you
Hey I can't figure it out
There's something about her
Cause she walk like a boss, talk like a boss
Manicured nails to set the pedicure off
She's fly effortlessly
She move like a boss do what a boss
Do she got me thinking about getting involved
That's the kind of girl I need
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
She got her own thing
That's why I love her
Miss Independent
Won't you come and spend a little time
She got her own thing
That's why I love her
Miss Independent
Ooh the way you shine
Miss Independent
Yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah...
[Verse 4: Lil Wayne]
Ridin' by myself well really not really
So heavy in the trunk make the car pop-a-wheelie
Who? Weezy Baby or call me Young Baby
My money 360, you only 180
Half of the game too lazy
Still sleepin' on me but I'm bout to wake em
Yep! I'm bout to take em to New Orleans and bake em
Yeah it's hot down here take a walk with Satan yeah
Come on mama let The Carter make ya
Toss ya like a fruit salad strawberry-grape ya
They ball when they can and I'm ballin' by nature
Addicted to the game like Jordan and Payton
Ya'll in a race and me I'm at the finish line
They running for too long it's time to gimme mine
Straight down ya chimney in ya living room is I
Weezy allergic to wintertime...
[Ne-Yo]
Yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah, yeah-yeah, yeah...
Oooooohhhh
[Hook: Ne-Yo]
She got her own thing
That's why I love her (that's why I love)
Miss Independent (independent)
Won't you come and spend a little time
She got her own thing (she got, she got)
That's why I love her (that's why I love that girl)
Miss Independent (oh oh)
Ooh the way you shine
Miss Independent


Happy Birthday Ben. You iz a trill muthafucka. U do u you know what I'm sayin


[Samuel Christian]
You ready?
[Knoc-Turn'al]
Yes, ha ha ha
Yeah, yeah
Let's go, I like singing
[Knoc-Turn'al]
My music, my life, my heart, my soul
My music, my everything, I give my all
My wife, my daughter, my love, my dream
My mother, my father, my brother, my team
My camp, my squad, my house, my car
My boat, my shoes, my pants, my shirt
My coke, my sugar, my cream, my butter
My toast, my all, my queen, my folks
[Hook: Samuel Christian]
My baby! Walk like six strings
Talk like she's my everything
My baby! Loves me, hates me
Leaves me, runs right back
That sexy lady! All I know
She shares all my confusion, so
My baby! Will not run from an-y-thing
I swear this though
[Knoc-Turn'al talking]
Now I lay me down to sleep
I pray the Lord, my soul to keep
If Muzik should die before I wake
I pray the Lord, my soul to take
[Knoc-Turn'al]
She's thick, she's bad, so clean, she's fine
She loves, she hates, she laughs, she cries
She hurts, she lies, she's Bonnie, I'm Clyde
She's ghetto, she's real, she sings, she rhymes
She comes, she goes, she lives, she dies
She sexy and bomb, she blows my mind
She stays in line, she's smart, she's funny
She's crafty and cunning, in the game she's running
Her lips, her back, her waist, her thighs
Her face, her skin, her hair, her eyes
Her voice, her shape, her hips, her mind
Her love, her smile, her touch, her time
[Hook]
[Knoc-Turn'al]
I'm tipsy, I'm through, I'm drunk, I'm blunted
My way, my day, my life - I love it
I move, I groove, I shake, I love it
My friends, my kins, I like, I love it
I show, I prove, I live, I learn
I show, I teach, I run these streets
My kin, my heart, my heat, my rhythm
My rap, my beat, my life, my head and my feet
My heart, my soul, my candy, my cake
My platinum, my gold, my land, my gate
My Benz, my lake
My keys, my money, my love, my hate
My clothes, my phone, my house, my home
My money, my comb, my sugar, my spice
My base, my chrome
My rhythm, my music, my home
My world, my girl, my life, my home, my...
[Hook] - repeat until fade



The haunted, Aphex Twin-sampling "Blame Game" bottoms out with a verse in which Kanye's voice is sped up, slowed down and stretched out. The effect is almost psychotic, suggesting three or four inner monologues fighting over smashed emotions. It's one of many moments on the record where West manipulates his vocals. Whether funneling some of his best-ever rhymes through a tinny, Strokes-like filter on "Gorgeous" or making himself wail like a dying cyborg in the final minutes of "Runaway", he uses studio wizardry to draw out his multitudes. Tellingly, though, he doesn't get the last word on the album. That distinction goes to the sobering tones of Gil Scott-Heron's 1970 spoken-word piece "Comment #1", a stark take on the American fable. "All I want is a good home and a wife and children and some food to feed them every night," says Scott-Heron, bringing the fantasy to a close.
On "POWER", Kanye raps, "My childlike creativity, purity, and honesty is honestly being crowded by these grown thoughts/ Reality is catching up with me, taking my inner child, I'm fighting for custody." The lines nail another commonality between the rapper and his hero. Like Michael, Kanye's behavior-- from the poorly planned outbursts to the musical brilliance-- is wide-eyed in a way that most 33 year olds have long left behind. That naivety is routinely battered on Twisted Fantasy, yet it survives, better for the wear. With his music and persona both marked by a flawed honesty, Kanye's man-myth dichotomy is at once modern and truly classic. "I can't be everybody's hero and villain, savior and sinner, Christian and anti Christ!" he wrote earlier this month. That may be true, but he's more willing than anyone else to try.


[Mary J. Blige]
(*harmonizing*)
All my love is all I have
All my life I look for you
[Verse 1 - Fabolous]
I'm just Fab, I see how Mary be now
But I can barely be found
And I rarely be round
But when I do, the jury be drowned
And you can see how clear the Pavees, and the Canaries be now
The top on the 5 series be down
And I'm chillin' where them little houses on the prairie be now
Although there was a time I would barely see thous
But I'm gettin a multi-million dollar yearly fee now
Girls, don't even know me, want to marry me now
Dudes, I thought was homies, want to bury me now
That's why I keep a bulletproof vest, no matter where we be now
And I carry three pounds, and nearly three rounds
I take whatever the verdict from the jury be now
Rather than friends, it's pallbearers that carry me round
Everybody staring unnecessarily now
But there's no tints on my life, so you can clearly see now
[Hook - Mary J. Blige]
All my love is all I have
And my dreams are very special
All my life I looked for you
And today your dream come true
You need me and I need you
Lovin us is very special
Lovin life and life and livin
Your very special
[Verse 2 - Fabolous]
Ya'll can never be built like me, even if ya'll look at my blueprint
But since ya'll watches look like its movement
I'll show you how video games look on the new Sprint
Flip out digital screens, look in the new Bent
100 and flat screens, look in the new Pint
Even our Air Forces lookin' to new tints
I stay away from anythin that look like a nuisance
But ya'll gotta peep this rookie's improvement
I tip it with you and
Cause most dudes was doin verses for a few dollars and a hook for a few cents
All I do is try to teach and look to influence
But it look like the students are playin hooky, and truin
And some say that we lookin' like new gents
But money talks, and it don't look like ya'll fluent
And ya'll done seen how this "Young'n" look in the new pints
But it's my life and you can't look in the new tints
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Fabolous]
Uh, If I could say so myself, I came a long way
Even though I feel like the same old John J
Nothin' change, when I aim, I'm gonna spray
When I eat, I order the same old entree
When I ride, I let the same old songs play
And when I work, I do the same old long days
From bein' Fab, to looked at by dames the wrong way
They know where we came, from the name they call me
I already know what these lames is gonna say
And I already seen what games they gonna play
Fuck with family, don't say the name the wrong way
And when you die, ya'll crackers gonna blame it on strays
[Mary J. Blige]
Cause love and life, and life and livin
Your very special
(*harmonizing*)
[Hook] - w/ variations
(*harmonizing*)
Me and Fab are very special
(*harmonizing*)
Me and Fab are very special


[Intro: Jaheim]
Believe me when I tell ya
You don't want the drama
[Verse 1: N.O.R.E.]
A yo, for years I been buyin' my coke from the same cat
Dominican nigga who look black (that's right)
This summer I heard that (ha!)
I see me always swerve wit a (give it up!) where the bird at (yeah)
Apocalyptic, I pop biscuits (apocalypse), my bitch is topless
Not too excited I skeet skeet my own boxes
Drama King got the drama goods (bluh, bluh, bluh!)
Same place as the Domin' Osama Hood
Shoot up the thug and still puttin' the dame on it
The pimps had to give me a cup wit my name on it
I was "Gordito"
I'm still Gordo or "Gito"
Still know how to get the raw dough for cheap-o (cheap)
I'm lastin' all palm wit the connect of a "perico" (parakeet)
N.O.R.E. got no manners (no manners!)
I take a picture of ya "culo" wit the phone cameras
Go into ya own banners (ha!), they say my ballin' so hot like lone candles
And port or part of Santiago wit my own hammers (oh!)
[Hook: Jaheim, Left Gunz]
[Left Gunz] Believe me when I say (oh!)
[Jaheim] You don't want no drama
[Left Gunz] It's ghetto die hood, thugged out all day (what?!)
[Jaheim] You don't want no problems (oh ohh!)
[Left Gunz] Shit is real killer, you could ask KaySlay
[Jaheim] Believe me when I tell ya!
[Left Gunz] We drama kings nigga we don't play
[Jaheim] You don't want the drama
[Verse 2: Nature]
Nature, alright, the year 2000 and 4 the War Report (port)
Niggas make it out the hood, it's a small reward (ward)
We all fucked up and mauled cause that's all we saw (alright)
Tryin' to rob from the the rich and let the poor get poor (poor)
Or rob the poor cause niggas be the hungriest (my niggas)
I'm on the Internet - catch me on your Buddy List (I'll be in trouble, ha!)
Catch me where the money is, megas and millions (megas)
And the barrel got the kick of 11 guerillas (shout!)
Seen niggas get hit and lose a whole lot of blood (what?)
When a nigga legit, a nigga knowin' how to stunt (stunt)
Uptown, Downtown, go wherever he at (wherever he at)
Nigga make it implication, shit better be fat (shit better)
Nigga small talk, it's all talk - let it be that (let it be that)
I get pussy from my friends (pussy!) give my enemies clap (ha ha!)
You don't want me on ya block (you don't want me) niggas better be strapped
So relax nigga
[Hook: Jaheim, Left Gunz]
[Verse 3: Left Gunz]
My name ring from the Clippers to the Nets (yeah)
You could look and see I'm Dirty Jerz down to the zippers on my sweats (oh)
Far from the type of cat that pay a bitch's rent
I got a +Fox+ like +Vivica+ and never gave her +50 Cent+ (ha ha!)
And I bet you ain't ready for war yet (uh)
My niggas got stripes, who walk around like the Barbershop Quartet? (ooh!)
It's no way to harm this nigga
I don't need no bitch to pump eye until my arms get bigger
Still a problem in this the rap game, problem in the street
Yo Slay, they havin' problems, we can solve em wit the heat
I show em what the drama is
That's when ya whole shit splattered all across the front porch in momma crib
And wit a couple hot slugs get behind ya ribs (ooh!)
You really mean it when ya screamin' , "I'm just tryin' to live!"
The game is over now
Y'all niggas slept long enough, time to come up out that coma now, uh
[Hook: Jaheim, Left Gunz]
[Verse 4: Jaheim]
Yo, straight off the bat
You don't want the drama nigga Left Gunz gon' clap
When I'm comin' try to run and catch one in ya back
Ooh! You don't really want the problems
Got a whole lot of family out in Spanish Harlem
Pop goes the weasel, out comes the Mack
And nothin' to gain but pimpin' the game


[Hook: ?]
Left, right, right, left
We go left, right, right, left
C'mon left, right, right, left
We gon tighten up our boots and march till it ends, c'mon
Left, right, right, left
We go left, right, right, left
C'mon left, right, right, left
We gon tighten up our boots and march till it ends
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
This a story about a bad girl that used to be good
A miseducation of Lauren that stayed in the hood
See she probably could have made it in Hollywood
But she was misguided, misled, and misunderstood
She wanted her baby dad with good hair like Blair Underwood
And push a whip with 12 cylinders under the hood
...
She didn't want her daughters to end up in the same position
So she named one hope named the other ambition
...
Then one got popped
...
Don't worry Mom
...
[Hook: ?]
[Verse 2: ?]
...


[Verse 1: Adele]
You've been on my mind
I grow fonder every day
Lose myself in time
Just thinking of your face
[God only knows why it's taken me so long to let my doubts go]
You're the only one that I want
I don't know why I'm scared
I've been here before
Every feeling, every word
I've imagined it all
You'll never know if you never try
To forget your past and simply be mine
[Hook:] I dare you to let me be your, your one and only
Promise I'm worth it
To hold in your arms
So come on and give me a chance
To prove I am the one who can walk that mile
Until the end starts
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Kanye the best in the game, now we got that, that thing clear
Kanye West is the name, Southside up in here
Y'all niggas stole the soul, y'all niggas all some clones
Y'all need to change y'all tone, nigga I control the gold
Motherfucker close the do', light the weed and let the douja blow
Why you keep bawlin' though girl, you ain't been around niggas before?
Why my chain rosey gold, why my wrist below zero
How the hell I know B-Lo, why them girls tell you no means no
No means no just as sure as green means go, green means paper
Dream team, caper we see haters like shorty on the 'Sixth Sense'
Y'all finna' see some dead people, come through ya block and air people
My people ain't scared people, only FIG-I-AIR people
[Hook:]
Let me be your, your one and only
I promise I'm worth it
To hold in your arms
So come on and give me a chance
To prove I am the one who can walk that mile
Until the end starts
You've been on my mind
I grow fonder every day
Lose myself in time
Just thinking of your face
God only knows why it's taken me so long to let my doubts go
You're the only one that I want


[Intro/Chorus One: Stat Quo]
Oh ohh oh ohhhhhhhh!
Let me call some, call some girls that I knowww, knowww
I don't mean the bougie ones from befohhh, 'fohhh
I need some girls that's really down to get lowww, lowwww
[Kanye - talking over Chorus]
It's ya boy Kanye to The
The Roc is in the building right now
We smoked out
And I don't even talk like that
[Verse One: Kanye West]
Now if my man Benzino got a Benz and they call him Benzino
When I get my Bentley they gon call me Bent-lino
Lot of shit changed since I hooked with Jay-Z yo
For the tracks I done got 800 C-notes
So glad I ain't take the drive to Home Depot
Right now my car and home would be repo'd
Fuckin with my girl today around three-oh
My man said let's call some girls that we know
Ohhhhhhhh!  Sometimes I wanna say fuck my bitch
But I don't want nobody to fuck my bitch
Even if a modelin chick sucked my dick
It wouldn't make me now feel so sick, just because
They came over to cheer me up
Smoked, drink, and yeah we fucked
No matter what they do it can't be enough
[Chorus One]
[Chorus Two: Stat Quo]
I'ma smoke like I never smoked befohhh, 'fohhh
I need some girls that's really down to get lowww, lowwww
[Stat Quo - talking over Chorus Two]
Wooo!  Yeah!  Haha.. Stat Quo nigga
Shady motherfuckin Aftermath, you understand me?
Uhh
[Verse Two: Stat Quo]
Looka here homes gettin my stunt on
I step in the bar I'm a superstar
They know who I are from the pimp description
Mack hoes just to get 'em in the doggy position
Put my key in yo' ignition and work the kitten
Introduce you to how hustlers livin
Dick and bubblegum is all I'm givin
New whip, new year, new crib to sit in
I'll take ya bitch, make ya bitch make me rich
From major chips, but now you sick
How Stat Quo got dough to flow and dough to blow
'Gnac to sip and wigs to split
'Nuff grip won't slip, be easy
Your girlfriend wants to, please me
Make a porno, put her on TV
(Do a porno tape with that ho mayne)
Make that pussy drip drip when she see me
[Chorus One] + [Chorus Two]
Mafia!


COMING SOON (INSHALLAH)


[Verse 1: King Tha Rapper]
I Used To Always Be Popular Now I Know Why, I Was The Kid Using Improper Words Rocking Bowties. (Don't Lie)
Okay You Caught Me, I Never Used To Be That Dude In School So The Cool Dudes I Would Copy. Started Wearing Them Snapbacks
Pants Sagging And Thats That, Skip Class But Get Caught Like I Don't Know Where My Class At. Math Class Should've Passed That But I Passed Up, Too Focused On Getting My Swag Up, Hol That Back Up. Too Focused On Getting My Swag Up. Yo I Don't Think That It Adds Up But I Passed Math With A Low D So Im Pretty Sure It Doesn't Add Up But Now I Know That Popularity Is Not Preparing Me For Anything To Help Me Be A Top Celebrity. So I Gave It Up, What Was I Needing It For Cause Nerds Are Usually Receiving Awards And Getting All The Fame, My Pen And Paper's Insane When It Comes To This Game. Popular
[Hook]
Popular. I Know About Popular And Within In This.... X4
[Verse 2: Gee_Wisdom]
Popularity Is Not Comparing Me Its About Being Different Not Wanting To Be A Celebrity Want The Fame I'm Like Nah They Call me Young Tree Because I Stand Tall Through It All Never Gon Fall. Ya Boy Like Kobe I Used To Chase The Ball Being The Best Hardly Not At All. Devoted My Life To God. Waiting On His Call X2
Waiting On His Call Money! The Route To All Evil Sixteen Buses Like Im Evil Kenevil. These People Full Of Shhhhh Imma Pop Em With A Needle You Mad Or Nah Cause On My Worst Day Im Still Gon Ball. Young Tree Gee_Wisdom Yeah Thats Me (Me) And Imma Be Here Till 3003 (3) Ill Never Stop Until I Get To The T-O-P.  T-I-M-O-T Yeah Thats Me GEE
[Hook]
[Verse 3: King Tha Rapper]
Popularity Is What Im Used To. King Tha Rapper Leader Of The New School. Never Been A Fool Always On My Grind MAXZAR Records Yeah We So Live. King Im All About The Royalty Need A New Girl And She Needs To Be Royal To Me. Never Gonna Stop Until I Hit Top Pass It Off To Gee Cause Me And Him Is Whats Hot
[Verse 4: Gee_Wisdom]
Im So Popular My Shoe Game's Crazy Im So Sick It's Like I Got Rabies. Im So Demanding, Im Outstanding, Im So New York Like Eli Manning. Don't Mess With Me Cause I Got Them Thumps And If You Try Me I'll Give Your Forehead Some Bumps And I, Keep Calm I Got The Rap Game In My Palm, So Keep Calm Keep Calm
[Hook]


[Verse 1: Big Boy]
One thing that makes me mad is when people get foolish
On Halloween, people start to feel like they're kinda ghoulish
Comin' into my face, sayin' "Hey can I get a picture?
Can I get a picture of you and your son?" and I say "Hold on, I don't want one"
Step back, get away, give me my space
Wait, give me my space, because I may Chris Brown you and punch you dead in your motherfuckin' face
Because I don't like people comin' into my category, into my area
Because they cause mass hysteria
It gets scarier, or should I say it's scary
Because I can hit high notes, kick in your nuts like Mariah Carey
And that's the way it is, so those things make me mad
When my momma passed away, that was the thing that made Big Boy really sad
We're talkin' about mad, we're talkin' 'bout gettin' frustrated
We're talkin' about before me and my girl got married, before we dated
We're talkin' about when people say things about my momma or my family
You can't do that to me, because you can't trust me
Now I'm Ida's son, Keith's brother, Sheila's brother, Kenny's brother
Sharell's brother, Nicole's brother, Sharnice's brother, a whole lot of brothers
But anyway, let me get back on topic
That's the way it is when I kick freestyles, let me stop it
So Kanye, you're here
What makes you mad? Make it clear
I'm fallin' off, let me put my shoes back on, let me tie 'em up
Kanye, here you go, brother, could you please fill up our cup?
[Verse 2: Kanye West]
Uh, I guess I get mad when you get boxed in
So mad, you wanna start boxin'
So mad, you're gonna turn to Tyson
Slicin' and dicin'
Paparazzi, I'm like a nazi to 'em
I'm not Bill Cosby to 'em
And I ain't Bing Crosby
More like the next Sinatra to 'em
Uh, ayo I got to ruin
The image and the style that you're used to doin'
When people usually do music
I am a visionary, Christian soldier, don't confuse it
Ayo, before I lose it, and have to prove it
This the way that we gon' do it, time we gotta move it to the future
Kamasutra
Any way that suit yah
Don't shoot yah
Stop the violence and it's been stopped
Uh, we stopped the violence in the hip-hop
Uh, we stopped the hatin' and the degredation
Uh, we 'bout to build like one nation
Uh, got off the phone with Benjamin Carson
Uh, that's the next president, arson
Burn it down, burn Hollywood, burn, like Ice Cube said
Uh, I'm the rudest
Lot of people say that, cause they say Ye don't play that
They be off that Grey Goose, I be off that Ye juice
Uh, that's the way I stay loose
Confidence and esteem, American dream
Uh, my crib spacial
Uh, my relationship is interracial
[Verse 3: Big Boy]
You can't categorize me, you can't put me in a box
I'm the ox that rocks, bagels and locks
Learn what you're eatin', learn the menu
Cause I continue to send freestyles through your denu
Or should I say I dim you, down like a lightswitch
That's the way it is, Big Boy, you know I'm not a yitch
I gotta go 'head and censor myself
And if you look into my pocket, I'm a little bit of wealth
But anyway, Ida's son, the real McCoy
Ida's son, the homies, they call me Big Boy
Yesterday, today, [?]
I had to drop 7-10 cause it's Kanye West day
In the neighborhood, Power 106, it's all good
That's the way it is, I think you should
Let me get back on, because I'm fallin' off again
Let me kick my volume way past 10
'Because it's Ida's son, the B-I-G
Big Boy's in the house, in the place to be
I don't know why I'm saying these old simple last rhymes
But anyway, I'm Kickin back with some friends of mine
That's louis, E-man, and Kanye, Can't Forget Ricky
That's the man that's on the microphone
[?]
Thats the man thats on the turntables, Willing and able
[Verse 4: Kanye West]
I don't where to start, I don't where to start
Maybe the chart, maybe the heart
Maybe the, Maybe the flow
Maybe the gold, where i was grow
Where I grew up in, Where you could see
When my momma divorced my daddy and we moved down [?]
When we was three, in the cold
Straight from Chicago, where I go
And everybody know
From my homie Don C, I be eh
Ay yo, like IBM
Or Apple Steve Jobs, or this
Yeah, I'm on my job with this
Ay yo its very very simple
You heard me on Jimmy Kimmel
I can do it in every tempo, I use my temple
I wanna build a temple, I wanna build Churches
That could be as big as the Adams Family, where it lurches
Ay yo, this is not a circus
The zoo is closed motherfucker
Ay yo, it ain't no
No cursing in the versing, what you know is not perfect
And you know its still worth it
I might short circuit
I might just blackout
Hit you with that blakka, you know I'm the rocker
Number one Chief rocker, Number one Chief rocker
Ain't nobody gon' stop em', ain't nobody gon' stop us because
I got God on my side, thats the way I ride
Jesus  Christ
Yeezus Christ
Yeezus nice


[RALI: Verse 1]
You ever felt like every time that you get up out seat, people watching you?
Think they hate your guts, but they never even talked to you?
Seen who you used to be? Know who you became?
You're feeling close to fame, but you're so far away
Look in the sky, like a scientist; blind as shit
Searching for the answers to my questions, hope I find them quick
Why is it? Everywhere I go, I gotta pay a different toll
For every debt that I acquire, with a fine tip pen
And a light skin girl, with some nice lips
Thick ass, nice hips, slim waist, cute face, nice tits
Mean walk; thinking she a queen, but the shit ain't what it seem
So she try to hold on to nigga, like some vise-grips?
But still, I eat the shit that's on my plate
Niggas really love me, but in public, they just love to hate;
Behind closed doors - same dudes same pressing play on my shit
Tryna ride on my dick
So I just tell them dudes
They can get up off my dick, before they get pregnant
Cause these niggas love to talk, then they switch subject
Like, "Did you hear that nigga Sheed? I heard he weak."
Faking like they hit delete, while them niggas hit repeat
See, wolves run in packs, and bitches run in fleets
What them bitches don't know, have them jumping out they seats
I guess their thinking in the back of their mind, I shouldn't be able to fly:
Aerodynamics of Bee Flight
So they just hate me when they see flight
Gritting their teeth like, it's a piece of meat stuck in their teeth
I branched out; these niggas been leaf-like; wreath-like
Seasonal, feasible, meat sliced
But I'm rare like a over-done ham, in a mosque in Arabia
God's in the making here, and I ain't gotta fake it
If I'm lying, let God strike me down while I'm saying this
I'm probably the most intelligent mind in your radius
Never been babied
Never been baby-ish
Got up on my grown man
Niggas acting lady-ish
False hope? Lost dreams? Big cars? Big screen?
Man that shit ain't what it seem, so I just sit back and breathe...
Can I breathe?
(Man... I just want to breathe man... Baby, get me some water... Thank you.)
[RALI: Verse 2]
Where did I end?
Or, where should I begin?
As I sin, and I bleed from the ink my pen
And I think that my friends are my enemies;
My enemies depend on my shit, like diapers
I spit like vipers; venomous
Snake denim jeans
Nigga please...
I been bigger
While you little niggas
Pretend to squeeze triggers
Corporate thugs whisper sweet nothings in your ear
And you dig it like a bitch! Now you think that you legit?
How you know you ain't been fooled yet?
All that ice on your chain, you think you cool man?
These niggas pussy, boy they wetter than a pool man
Damn... I'm in the kitchen with the candlestick
You still ain't got the clue yet!
Haters are so fake dog
Nigga, you ain't me
So how you gon hate
When you ain't even paid your dues yet?
I get these niggas excited; I'm like a new check
Cause they only get to see greatness once in a blue moon
Who knew? That swag shit washed up like shampoo
P.U. - Cause I shit in the booth, when I spit in the booth...
Shit in the booth
I spit in the booth like I'm missing a tooth...
I got these niggas aloof
You missing the point, cause I'm spitting the truth
RALI baby...


(Big Gipp)
You'se a baffoon, caught up in your own cocoon
Leave your head rest maroon
Drunk heavy in the side street saloon
Til' I figured it out, to the 3rd degree
I'm the milli in the meter
I'm the gram up in the kilo
I'm the wave up in the ocean
The C up in the coast and
The B up in the Boston
So what you looking for or looking at now
You ain't got what you gotta shake
Caught it on the sidewalk fake
I gets down, further digging down
Hurt for the red dirt at the same time
Hit rewind if your ass didn't hear me clear
Hit rewind if your ass didn't hear me clear
Hook
My old hood could use a little rebuilding
A better place for these ghetto children
I ain't gonna let 'em take the O out my JOY
Before you can rebuild, you've got to destroy
And these walls gonna come tumbling down
These walls gonna come tumbling down
(Cee-Lo)
Well I remember when, I was slanging nothing but weed
I ain't ??? round here that can't tell you about me
Fortunately I done changed the way I used to be
When so many didn't have an alternative to see
Music saved my life and now I'll never forget it
Thats why I try to glorify God with it
But it still remains, its in my veins
I know that I'mma sin, I just hope he'll forgive me again
Okay, I'm right and wrong in the same day
And it's always gonna be someone who'll see it the same way
And if I react, who was that guy to blame, hey
You fuck with me, I fuck with you thats how the game played
I had a choice to let it go, but if you don't let it go
Then I ain't got no choice no more
Two lives gone to waste, one dead and the other caught a case
With 50 years to face
I'm raising ghosts, I'm rebuilding
Hook
(T-Mo)
I'm so tired of my people not knowing what we doing to ourselves
And we blame it on them, but we stuck in the same frame
Trapped inside a mental instrumental bond
Hoping to run, but theres a gun, what could you really do
Everybody new kicking the old ??? to the floor
But now its more shit, crooked, shady, talking 'bout the president
He's fucking other ladies, blowing up spots we supposed to hit
And casually they spreading billions to the little children overseas
Niggas moving G's, I'm on my knees praying god please
A nigga just wanna eat and sleep
With my gun in my own little world and raise my little kids
Doing the best I can nigga
(Khujo)
Shit, look who talking now
You gots'ta crawl before you walk, Ohh don't follow to close
Where I think you might stop
We all can see that the grass is the same color on the other side of the fence
Give thanks, people thank alarm clocks, wake 'em up
Every morning brother I gotta stay prayed up
Cause the pistol ain't gonna save my life when it's time to go
Its just in case I get a chance to retaliate
I used ain't have nothing positive to say
Doing my little five minutes of fame
Who done forget from which they came
Acknowledge his name, Lord, you've been so good to me
Better than I've been to myself
Keep us in good health
The white mans food makes my stomach upchuck
But I gots'ta be strong, to defeat my enemies
For the kill, MAC's in your side
Judging buildings, they can't be no playgrounds for these childrens
Hook


D


[Bridge-Arie Dixon]
I never thought I'd feel
The same as that feeling that I felt when I felt about you
And all my friends know it
But they don't say it cause, I'm not the same without, you
And I can't deny it, even if I try it, shit
I know it's so true
And as crazy as it sounds, you'll never know what I go through
[Verse 1 - Arie Dixon]
I'm not gonna lie though, I'm feelin like I died slow
Sitting back like damn, where did time go
Lookin back with regeret cause I know
When you left, a part of me died slow
I kinda sorta feel defeated
I'm disappointed cause this missions incompleted
But, I can't believe that I'm free now
The noose's loose around my neck, I can breathe now
Cause, I would've told you go fuck yourself
You ain't care about shit, but yourself
Try to treat me like half a man
I should've fucked your best friend when I had the chance
Holy shit, this ho's a trick
She tryna hit me up now like I owe her shit
Fuck that bitch, you can kiss my asshole
Because of you I am an asshole
Cause you always find, yes you always find
Bitch you always find something wrong
And i've been puttin up with your shit just way too long
Because of you
[Hook]
I'm so gifted at finding what I don't like the most
So I think it's time for us to have a toast
Let's have a toast for the douchebags
Let's have a toast for the assholes
Let's have a toast for the scumbags
Every one of them that I know
Let's have a toast for the jerkoffs
That'll never take work off
Baby, I got a plan
Run away fast as you can
[Verse 2 - Kanye West]
She find pictures in my e-mail
I sent this bitch a picture of my dick
I don't know what it is with females
But I'm not too good with that shit
See, I could have me a good girl
And still be addicted to them hoodrats
And I just blame everything on you
At least you know that's what I'm good at
[Bridge (2)- Kanye West]
Run away from me, baby, run away
Run away from me, baby, run away
It's about to get crazy, why can't she just, run away?
Baby, I got a plan, run away fast as you can
[Verse 3- Pusha T]
24/7, 365, pussy stays on my mind
I-I-I-I did it, all right, all right, I admit it
Now pick your next move, you could leave or live wit' it
Ichabod Crane with that motherfucking top off
Split and go where? Back to wearing knockoffs, haha
Knock it off, Neiman's, shop it off
Let's talk over mai tais, waitress, top it off
Hoes like vultures, wanna fly in your Freddy loafers
You can't blame 'em, they ain't never seen Versace sofas
Every bag, every blouse, every bracelet
Comes with a price tag, baby, face it
You should leave if you can't accept the basics
Plenty hoes in the balla-nigga matrix
Invisibly set, the Rolex is faceless
I'm just young, rich, and tasteless
P!
[Bridge]
[Hook]


Imagine being born as a grown man, 21 in a world full of stupidity
People tryna get rid of me heard you people were sick of me
Rappers tryna grow a pair heard you niggas was dissin' me
You can't find nothin' to talk about, if it isn't me
I'm sick of liars everything you say is shit to me
So wipe ya fuckin' mouth before you speak to me
Funny how the people that I trusted & people I used to love
All used to say that we were close, now I'm in shit, & they don't stick wit me
I'm up to my neck in debts, & I can't fix it
14 bucks to my name, I can't get shit for Christmas
Always wanted to buy my mother such a simple gift
When you're doing horrible wit money it ain't simple is it?
Damn, feel like I'm one of God's worst creations
Low income pleasing people with high expectations
I look around at my generation
Noticing not one of 'em reaching out for an application
I know this shit is crazy but
Technology's advancing &, we just gettin' lazier
I'm workin' hard & giving up you can't blame me but
I'm tryna taste the fruit of success, so you should save me some
Over the years I've felt heartbreaks
Can't believe I let these bitches gimme heart aches
Puttin' effort into a person who don't give a shit
About you even if you took a knife & fuckin' slit ya wrist
You ever gave somebody everything you had?
& got nothin' back, it fucks you up, & it's sad
Because the ex girl, fuckin' everything up for the next girl
So your next girl, just quickly becomes the ex girl
You're paranoid of the opposite sex
You raise the bar because the last one got in your chest
& tore your heart out, stomped it tore it to shreds
Now you're unstable, curious about your next
I told myself that I give up with love
Cuz what's the point being wit someone & it's just because?
What's the point of dealing wit all of this crap
When you tell them that you love 'em but they never say it back?
What's the point of even trying when they half ass it?
You live for love, you live for evil, that's backwards
I've come to deal wit the fact that I hate relationships
No wonder I stop trying, it ain't changin' shit
I tell myself that women are not identical
Mama always told me treat 'em right that's how I raised you
Mama I'm sorry but I can't believe that
Everything you told me bout women I do not see that
Women are supposed to hold me down & always let me know
Instead they always let me go
But fuck it I'm 21 only been in love twice
Heard you get 3 chances, bout to earn my third strike
Fuck.. I'm fuckin' broke & I fuckin' hate it
On May 15th I thought I fuckin' made it
Man I got a lot to say.. But I don't ever say shit
Recorded countless songs & I still ain't get a paycheck
Man I'm fuckin' strugglin' bad enough & my mama is worse
I'm tryna kill my all my emotions all in a verse
Look in the mirror, saw my soul just hop in a hearse
Hopped into a coffin drivin' off, my thoughts just burn
See I don't do this for the money, I do this for the fans
But what I'm doing isn't feeding up my fam
I swear to God I love it when they tell me I'm the man
But I ain't frontin' when I say there ain't a dollar in my hand
I always told myself become the greatest that you can be
Sit your ass down if you can't stand me
If plan A didn't work to kill the kid
I hope you mother fuckers savin' money, get a plan B
Cuz if you tryna kill me, put a bullet through my head
Better yet, no, do it, I want you to instead
Because the shit I go through I never understand it
People want me to tour, all the fans demand it
I'm sick of waiting for my time I felt I waited long enough
I know this road is hard, & I know this road is tough
But I'm impatient & I'm sick of waitin', I'm sick of talkin' this way
Any more waitin', then I'll walk away.. That's all I gotta say..
PMG


I'm calling
Out to
All my
Y'all my ladies, and I can't
Let you, be with, no one, but me, baby
Gotta admit to this little addiction
To the ladies and they just can't fix him
Conversation and the drinks start mixin'
And I'm a champ like the Detroit Pistons
I tried to contain myself
But I can't restrain myself
I can only blame myself
Maybe I need to get some help
Now what can I do?
It's so hard to choose
This one's for you
Yeah all of you
I'm calling
Out to
All my
Y'all my ladies, and I can't
Let you, be with, no one, but me, baby
My starting five how do I pick them?
I came up with this rating system
I think about how it feels when I kiss them
And when I'm gone do I truly miss them?
Well baby, you made the team
Now go cook my favorite things
Greens and some chicken wings
Tastes so good that you make me wanna sing
So what can I do?
It's so hard to choose
This one's for you
Yeah all of you
I'm calling
Out to
All my
Y'all my ladies, and I can't
Let you, be with, no one, but me, baby
I'm calling
Out to
All my
Y'all my ladies, and I can't
Let you, be with, no one, but me, baby


MARKED FOR DELETION


[Hook -- Jamie Foxx]
(Are you going to be, say that you're gonna be)
She said she want some Marvin Gaye
Some Luther Vandross
A little Anita
Will definitely set this party off right
She said she want some Ready For The World, some New Edition
Some Minnie Riperton will definitely set this party off right
[Intro - Kanye West]
Yes it will
It definitely will!
You know what I told her?
[Verse 1 - Kanye West]
I told her to "drive over in your new whip
Bring some friends you cool with
I'mma bring the Cool Whip
Then I want you to strip
See you is my new chick
So we get our grind on"
She be grabbing
Calling me Biggie like Shyne home
Man I swear she fine, homes
Why she always lying though?
Telling me them diamonds
When she know they rhinestones
She got a light-skinned friend, look like Michael Jackson
Got a dark-skinned friend, look like Michael Jackson
I played Ready for the World
She was ready for some action
"My dogg said you ain't a freak
So you gotta prove my man wrong"
I'mma play this Vandross
You gon' take your pants off
I'mma play this Gladys Knight
Me and you gon' get right
[Hook]
[Verse 2 - Twista]
Got you looking at the gliss' on my hands and wrists
While I'm laying back, smoking on my cannabis
When it come to rocking the rhythm like Marvin and Luther
I can tell you ain't no messin' with Kan-man and Twist
From the Chi, and I be
Sipping Hennessy
Play some R&B
Try and smoke a B
Looking properly
Feeling on a G?
And always (Well Well Well Well Well)
Come with me and sip on some Evelyn Champagne
You ain't know Twista can work it like The Whispers?
Hit the stop light, get into some Isley's
The rims still moving so I'm bumping a little Spinners
While I'm
Smoking on a B
Dipping through the streets
Bumping R&B
And I got to leave
On them 23's
And I do it
With my Earth in the Wind smokin' Fire
Let me when get your sheets wet listening to Keith Sweat
Put you in a daze with Maze
Fulfilling out our every temptation, slow-jamming, having deep sex
You Ready for the World, girl?
Come and cope with me and touch you all over your body, baby don't say no to me
An they known to be controlling me I'm loving the way you be holding me when I be listening to Jodeci
And when I come over and bend your ass
You be bumpin' Teddy Pendergrass
I done hit it from the back to the melody of "Roll It Slow"
Now I gotta go up in it fast, but I'mma finish last
No matter how much of a thug, you see
I still spit it like its R&B
Go to the club with me
And with some Luther come on, I hope you feeli me and still gon' be in love with me
[Hook]
[Verse 3 - Twista]
Baby drop another slow jam
And all us lovers, need to hold hands
And if you ain't got no man, hop up in my Brougham
I keep it pimping like an old man
You gots to roll with the plan
Cause after that, then I
Take it to the dome
Then I got to bone
Stay up in the zone
Got to get you home
Gotta run up on
And I do it


[Intro: Kanye]
This is a story about uh ballers and players the same shit but uh
It's kinda like it's saying if you a true player you can't count that
You know what I'm saying
Sometimes you gottta take it as a loss player
That's right Consequence and uh I go by the name of uh Kanye to the
You might of heard of me but uh listen for a minute we finna' break it down right here right now
[Verse 1: Consequence]
I know that bro gone wanna probably want me bad when I drive the Jag
And try to turn my sons against me like a hockey dad
Cause this (????????) every time she at the light she reminded who the mac
[Verse 2: Kanye]
And um she not the type that be getting the tat
She getting the lac
And figure shes getting the stacks
Figuring that we run clean like hoes and me
Now ride up and down like coasters be


[Intro: Kanye West]
Hello, can I speak to, uh..
Yeah, you know who you are, look
You had no idea what ya dealing with
Something on some of this realest shit
Pop champagne, I'll give you a sip
'bout to go dumb: how come?
Yeah that's my bitch, that's my bitch
Shorty right there? That's my bitch
[Hook: Elly Jackson]
I've been waiting for a long long time
Just to get off and throw my hands up high
And live my life and live my life
Just to get off and throw my hands up high
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
I paid for them titties, get your own
It ain't safe in the city, watch the throne
She say I care more about them basquions
Basquiats, she learning a new word, it's yacht
Blew the world up as soon as I hit the club with her
Too Short called, told me I fell in love with her
Seat by actors, ball players and drug dealers
And some lesbians that never loved niggas
Twisted love story, True Romance
Mary Magdalene from a pole dance
I'm a freak, huh, rock star life
The second girl with us, that's our wife
Hey boys and girls, I got a new riddle
Who's the new old perv that's tryna play second fiddle
No disrespect, I'm not tryna belittle
But my dick worth money I put Monie in the middle
Where she at? In the middle
[Hook]
[Bridge: Justin Vernon]
Swilling little licks and mixes ’til mornin', I'm yearnin', ooh yeah
Could I maybe have another dab of your potion? Stop motion, ooh, yeah
[Verse 2: Jay-Z]
Go harder than a nigga for a nigga go figure
Told me keep my own money if we ever did split up
How can somethin' so gangsta be so pretty in pictures?
Ripped jeans and a blazer and some Louboutin slippers
Uh, Picasso was alive he woulda made her
That's right nigga Mona Lisa can't fade her
I mean Marilyn Monroe, she's quite nice
But why all the pretty icons always all white?
Put some colored girls in the MoMA
Half these broads ain’t got nothing on Willona
Don’t make me bring Thelma in it
Bring Halle, bring Penélope and Salma in it
Back to my Beyoncés
You deserve three stacks, word to André
Call Larry Gagosian, you belong in museums
You belong in vintage clothes crushing the whole building
You belong with niggas who used to be known for dope dealing
You too dope for any of those civilians
Now shoo children, stop looking at her tits
Get ya own dog, ya heard? That's my bitch
[Hook]


[Chorus]
I'mma testify, come up in the spot looking extra fly
Till the day you die, we gonna touch the sky
We gonna touch the sky
Let me testify, come up in the spot looking extra fly
Till the day I die I'm gonna touch the sky
[Verse 1]
Now let me take you back to 2003
I just graduated tryna figure now where I should be
Now let's be honest, your collage really wasn't for me
And there wasn't no entry schools that gave out collage degrees
Now hold up, hold up
Contrary to what they believe
I found four selling on back of the magazine
And that was after my guidance counselor threw his hands up
For that I say fuck you, let me pull my pants up
Mama looking at me cry bout to leave a baby
Let me in Florida like 'Boy don't worry you gonna make it!'
And at least you made it this far, long way from Dayton
Told me hit the crowd and don't trip over your
Days that I didn't eat, days that I didn't sleep
Class though that seven, I'm still five trynna make that beat
You falling the pressure if you let it and he make you wike
And what don't kill you make you stronger, shit as you can see
[Chorus]
[Bridge]
And now let's take it high
Now let's take it high
[Verse 2]
My lil' cousin died so I said fuck school
I went back home like what the fuck I'm gonna do
Stressing but in every tragedy comes a blessing
Not in anger I done turn my passion into an obsession
Wasn't drinking, wasn't smoking, wasn't killing, wasn't fucking
Nigga I won't do nothing going crazy, I'm like fuck it
I don't know the last time somebody saw me out in public
Mama said 'Don't give up, just believe your time it's coming!'
Girls keep coming and go, I'm impossible to deal with
Telling me they hurt, they bout to leave and I don't feel shit
Lost so many girl that really love me on some real shit
Niggas came through some nights like you ain't gotta deal shit
Fighting a frustration, back and forth from Flint to Florida
Was [???] every week was at a bus station
I guess it paid off, what more can I say?
Cause all that hard work got me sitting next to Dre
[Chorus]
[Verse 3: Justin Daye]
I'm the five foot seven
The way I'm rhyming remind em of 9/11
If the sky's the limit I ain't fucking with you niggas
I'm still plotting the scheming to get to heaven
I'm still dreaming of being on David Letterman
Crossing over to popular culture, like I'm supposed to
The living I envision in my head is what's pulling a part of me closer
I'm hardly a bolster, it's no homicides in Burbank
You dwelling on negativity when my niggas ain't
My niggas ain't got time to waste, I'm placed with kings
The crown sitting on the side of my face
This is for niggas who die for it while I'm alive for it
The opportunity though is mind blowing
This girl from school told me I wasn't gon' win
I really wonder how a 9 to 5 going
[Chorus]
[Bridge]




[Intro]
[Free] Yes!
[Kanye] Yeah Kanye!
[Free] Philadelphia Freeway, uh
Y'all know what it is, uh, yeah, uh
[Verse 1: Freeway]
Before I turn out ya lights lets get one thing understood
I'mma keep my hammer real close, rubber grip tight
Tell y'all niggas good night, good night, uh
Before I turn out ya lights lets get one thing understood
Free gon' keep his hammer real close, rubber grip tight
Tell y'all niggas good night, good night, uh
The shit you heard'll do me justice, got a death wish
The shit I pack'll put holes through ya Lexus
Got the tec clip, respect it
The turn pike bully, earn stripes, move lla
Through ya turn pike early, all night, all day
Wait, switch hustles nigga, now I muscle mixtapes all night, all day
Yes! The front line of the Roc
Will through a football pass through ya chest
Brett Farve wit the Glock
Uh! I'm Max Payne wit the stock out
Money and fame run out, get it with cocaine
Rep the Roc till I clock out, I make you clock out
Put sumtin in ya brains
[Hook: Kanye West & Freeway]
I do my dirt all by my lonely and I got the heart to fight
So please refrain from hatin (on me!) before I turn out ya lights
Ain't no hesitation, I got the guns to fight
So please refrain from hatin (on me!) before I turn out ya lights
[Verse 2: Freeway]
Don't test my patience because I got the guns to fight
Stay wit em coast to coast
IHOP I distrubute the toast to folks
I stop, never, Free a rap Icon
Black Bon Jovi, ?in the rock/Roc love of rock/Roc?
Jake of watches, ice cickle the time
Still got time to leave ya stash gone when you wake up
Free hate smuts, stay wit a dime, at all times
Stay on the grind at all times wit so many nines
Shit baggin and shake up
Nigguh! Ain't no captin to shake up
Doe like a brink truck, nine on my waist, I!
[Hook]
[Verse 3: Freeway]
Freeeee! Put the burners to ya crew
Give me a reason, not to squeeze on ya gang
Man the hammers go bang to bang
In wit a bang, bang Blueprint 2
Before you, slide through to deliver ya gang the thangs
Switch lanes to get Paid in Full
Look it's the Rich Porter of transporters
Donvan McNabb of mixtapes, look hey
Follow the kid's orders in other words do what the kid say
We got it locked from the Bay back to Philly
Where niggas pack millies like every single day
We don't play, we all about our change and
Money exchangin, if you bout your pay
Then every single day, bring the lla to ya city
Act up, bring the K's to ya city
Then shots exchangin, every single day
[Chrous w/o (on me!)] x2


[Intro] [Consequence Talking]
You're in a privileged position to learn a thing or two
You got the right to wear something tight and have the time of your life
Come bounce with your boy. Cons
[Hook] [Consequence] (Kanye West)
When you're ready to stop runnin'
Ready to stop frontin'
Ready to pop somethin'
(You got to turn yourself in)
When you're ready to start confessin'
Face the consequences
Then baby come learn your lesson
(You need to turn yourself in)
So would all my sexy ladies
(Come on out with your hands up)
And all my pretty mommas
(Come on out with your hands up)
And if you got a body
(Come on out with your hands up)
This one's for ev'ybody
(Come on out with your hands up)
[Verse One] [Consequence]
It goes whoop whoop
That's the sound of the police
When they catch me goin' beast cause my face is in her teeth
And I'm just like Mr. Cheeks
Hit the Lights, get the Cameras
When we in the streets we can fight or get the hammers
Body or the wrist? also weekend in Atlanta
Came and drop more money on the jewels/Juelz than Santana
Cause that's the fine you pay when you shine this way
If it ain't about no money then that crime don't pay
See I find new ways to slide 'em out they dress
Now they wanna have the boy stuck on house arrest
But instead I jumped bail now I'm wanted in each state
How I record to the boy in me get my release date
I believe these tapes will be worth the misdemeanor
Just to see shorty go work it like Misdemeanor
So follow the ring leader, but don't hurt yourself
I wanna sit back and watch you strip search yourself
[Hook] [Consequence] (Kanye West)
When you're ready to stop
Runnin'
Ready to stop frontin'
Ready to pop somethin'
(You got
To turn yourself in)
When you're ready to start confessin'
Face
The consequences
Then baby come learn your lesson
(You need to
Turn yourself in)
So would all my sexy ladies
(Come on out with
Your hands up)
And all my pretty mommas
(Come on out with your
Hands up)
And if you got a body
(Come on out with your hands up)
This
One's for ev'ybody
(Come on out with your hands up)
[Verse Two] [Consequence]
I'm on highway patrol in a six double O
Let me parole your soul with an O of dro
The way them ice gray Stevies got a nigga profilin'
I'm the one they pull over when they get to profilin'
I did my first bid havin' battles in the back street
Now I got a rap sheet for flowin' over rap beats
Plus my back seat has New York's finest
So you can't tell me nothin' like you glued onto silence
But due to all the violence I keep burners in the mix
Cause I'd be tried by twelve, Cons carried by six
If you followed all the tips received on the hot lines
You can see that I spit and come up with the hot line
But most of these dimes want a man in uniform
And I'm just tryin' to get every dawg in my unit on
So you should movin' off that lame and his cavalry
Cause what the men do on that salary is called police brutality
[Hook] [Consequence] (Kanye West)
When you're ready to stop
Runnin'
Ready to stop frontin'
Ready to pop somethin'
(You got
To turn yourself in)
When you're ready to start confessin'
Face
The consequences
Then baby come learn your lesson
(You need to
Turn yourself in)
So would all my sexy ladies
(Come on out with
Your hands up)
And all my pretty mommas
(Come on out with your
Hands up)
And if you got a body
(Come on out with your hands up)
This
One's for ev'ybody
(Come on out with your hands up)
[Outro] [Consequence talking]
Yeah, word. Me and my homie got you and your girl surrounded
Come out with your hands up. Uh, it's the Cons baby
Now I admit. Now if looks could kill
I-I should be convicted for the kind of chicks I been cuffin' lately
Cause you know I don't pull nothin' but that heat
In and out of town boy
As far as that grand larceny charge
I'm gonna have to get overturned cause on the real...
I didn't steal your wife, I just borrowed her for the night
And that's how it goes when you're rollin' with E.P.C. Word


[Kanye West - talking]
I just got off the plane Chicago
It's ya boy Kanye West on the beat
Ay White Boy
[Hook x2: Kanye West]
I just want you to know, I just want you to know
I just want you to know, this boy here finna' blow
Southside up in here, Westside up in here
Eastside up in here, throw your hands in the air
[Kanye West]
Kanye the best in the game, now we got that, that thing clear
Kanye West is the name, Southside up in here
Y'all niggas stole the soul, y'all niggas all some clones
Y'all need to change y'all tone, nigga I control the gold
Motherfucker close the do', light the weed and let the douja blow
Why you keep bawlin' though girl, you ain't been around hoes before?
Why my chain rosey gold, why my wrist below zero
How the hell I know B-Lo, why them girls tell you no means no
No means no just as sure as green means go, green means paper
Dream team, caper we see haters like shorty on the 'Sixth Sense'
Y'all finna' see some dead people, come through ya block and air people
My people ain't scared people, only FIG-I-AIR people
[Hook x1]
[White Boy]
White Boy back in the mix, and I'm in the atmosphere
Crunkin' for stackin' the fifth, and we got them gats in here
This is not a game, Cris is not a lame
Chi-town drop the flame, White Boy got them thangs
White Boy a hot damn shame, White Boy hot like mars
Y'alls flow hot like March, y'all can't stop these bars
White Boy drop these charts, White Boy got the ball
Lyrics gon' shock you all, Cris gon' cop them cars
Get a couple foxy broads, out they shoes socks and bra
This is not so hard, Cris got a rocky heart
Pimp wit' a monster walk, Cris got hostile thoughts
Y'all better watch it dawg, me and West rock you dawg
[Hook 2x]
[White Boy]
Rap profit, plat gothic, slash convict raps jock it, phat
Pockets mac, hopin' crack, poppin' stacks
Droppin' cakes, stoppin' wakes, knockin' hate
And you fakes, watchin' base, on relate
Gossip fakes and I make, opt-Yeah
In case I catch a case gots to pay, confrentrate
Need ya way, from this place, cause it ain't common (nope)
If this ain't the way, Kan-ye, then it's straight
Colleges, in ya veins cause you spit what you came from
Straight knowledge, I was raised in the street
Praised in my heat, holdin' on my Nextel
Hopin' for the next cell, focused on the best cell
Smokin' on a fresh L, posted like FedEx mail
[Hook 2x]





[Intro: Kanye West]
I just got off the plane, Chicago
It's ya boy Kanye West on the beat
Ay, White Boy
[Hook 2x: Kanye West and John Legend]
I just want you to know, I just want you to know
I just want you to know, this boy here finna' blow
Southside up in here, Westside up in here
Eastside up in here, throw your hands in the air
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Kanye the best in the game, now we got that, that thing clear
Kanye West is the name, Southside up in here
Y'all niggas stole the soul, y'all niggas all some clones
Y'all need to change y'all tone, nigga, I control the 'go
Motherfucker close the do', light the weed and let the douja blow
Why you keep bawlin' though girl, you ain't been around niggas before?
Why my chain rosey gold, why my wrist below zero?
How the hell I know B-Lo, why them girls tell you no means no?
No means no just as sure as green means go
Green means paper, dream team caper
We see haters like shorty on the 'Sixth Sense'
Y'all finna' see some dead people
Come through ya block and air people
My people ain't scared people, only FIG-I-AIR people
[Hook]
[Verse 2: Whiteboy]
White Boy back in the mix and I'm in the atmosphere
Crunkin' for stackin' the fifth and we got them gats in here
This is not a game, Cris is not a lame
Chi-town drop the flame, White Boy got them thangs
White Boy a hot damn shame, White Boy hot like mars
Y'alls flow hot like March, y'all can't stop these bars
White Boy drop these charts, White Boy got the ball
Lyrics gon' shock you all, Cris gon' cop them cars
Get a couple foxy broads, out they shoes socks and bra
This is not so hard, Cris got a rocky heart
Pimp wit' a monster walk, Cris got hostile thoughts
Y'all better watch it dawg, me and West rock you dawg
[Hook 2x]
[B-Lo]
Rap profit, plat Gothic, slash convict raps jock it, phat
Pockets mac, hopin' crack, poppin' stacks
Droppin' cakes, stoppin' wakes, knockin' hate
And you fakes, watchin' base, on relate
Gossip fakes and I make, opt, yeah
In case I catch a case gots to pay, confrentrate
Need ya way, from this place cause it ain't common
(Nope)
If this ain't the way, Kanye, then it's straight
Colleges in ya veins cause you spit what you came from
Straight knowledge, I was raised in the street
Praised in my heat, holdin' on my Nextel
Hopin' for the next cell, focused on the best cell
Smokin' on a fresh L, posted like FedEx mail
[Hook 2x]


Loading
...


[Intro: Talib talking]:
Talib Kweli. Kanye West. "Pay close attention to my story" John Legend. "You'll find every word is true" Blacksmith, G.O.O.D. Music connection. It get's no better than this. Exclusives. One, two. Mic check. Mic check
[Hook]
"Young man standing on the corner"
Young man where you goin' in life, you know it ain't right
"Sellin' death, no conscious has he"
You can't escape the shadow in the light
Shine on ya
"Young man standing on the corner"
Young man where you goin' in life, you know it ain't right
"Sellin' death, no conscious has he"
[Verse One]
Yeah, the conscious MC
Sometimes I keep it simple
Fuck what the nerds say
Ain't tryin' to impress you with the intricate wordplay
Catch me at a bodega and plus I know my neighbors
A little too well, it's like my walls are made of paper
But this is New York City
Where our music Biggie
We do it gritty, take you through it like you grew up with me
First I'mma make a comment
It's time to change the context of what's considered conscious
We the concept obnoxious
And let me make a promise
I'mma always keep it honest
And to portray all my people cause we put in boxes
Category
Tryin' to make a break through
Dealin' with the hateful
Tryin' to stay faithful
Got an attitude house niggas can't relate to
Listening to music that the field niggas escape to
I plays phonetic
Over revolutionary rhetoric
Cause I'm down for action like a predicate
[Hook]
[Verse Two]
You can't escape
You can't escape
He patriotic to his niggas over God and country
He felt 'Pac when he said Only God Can Judge Me
You see the [?] walkin' in the playground
Stalkin' like a predator, you're baby ain't safe now
Wait now, ain't it big how he talkin' like he evil
And the [?] never acknowledge how he could be tryin' to feed his people
Young, black and throw in a line up
Labeled as a 'gang banger' though he never signed up
Cops is tryin' to get the crime up
You get that on your record
Employers gonna check it
Fire you, so now you gotta resort to the only method
The scene will guarantee any sense of clarity
As to when the rental be paid, it's street salary
You're sure to meet tragedy, die or go to jail
But somehow, it all seems worth it and that's real
Wishin' for the day you can say it's your last deal
But you know you be portrayed like Jesus at His last meal
That's...
[Hook]


* Previously entitled 'Surving the Streets' *
[TMR Intro]
Yo, You better watch your back out here boy
You never know who's gonna get chu
It could be someone in your face everyday
You know what I'm Sayin'
Smilin' and Grinnin'
You know what I'm sayin'
Word Up
[TMR and Pikasoe Black]
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
Betta keep ya eyes open and ya hand on the chrome
[Pikasoe Black]
Nigga crazy cat about to blow dis, Get rich and stay lowest
Laid in the cut but ya'll bitches still know this
When it comes to chips, you know my niggas stay focused
What I mean, We gotta eat, Ain't nuthin' sweat with that broke shit
Gotta stack it all now, So we can creep
Blowin' smoke out the door now, Boat by the shore now
I'd rather use my mind first, Instead of slugs
Hittin' niggas when the nine burst, Nine bodies and nine hearse
Nine funerals all held in the same church
Thinkin' it's gonna get better but dog it only get worse
Never seen success in my life, son that shit hurt
Possessed by the demons at night, Shit I've been cursed
For all my niggas holdin' it down, Smokin' the pund
Keep ya gun close and keep low to the ground
There is a lotta unfamiliar faces roamin' around
And I won't be satisfied until they low underground
[TMR and Pikasoe Black]
You All Alone, You All Alone
Betta keep ya eyes open and ya hand on the chrome
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
Betta keep ya eyes open and ya hand on the chrome
[TMR]
Everymorning I, Start my day off B, All Alone
Sometimes I feel like it's kust me and the weed, Me and the seed
Can't even trust my Manz Lord, Whats the plans Lord
I'm in Need, Can't go back to makin' niggas bleed
Or back up north, Or back and forth
No Time for slackin' off, I seen the Devil in my dreams
Gotta back him off
He makes me do things, Rude Things, Editorial Slangz, like Wu-Tang
And wild mood swings like catchin' a stick, or slappin' my bitch
Got me ready to flip on her, If I smell dick on her
Cause I'm broke she found the next cat to trick on her
Not to mention, I heard it through the great Vine
Niggas is after me, Thinkin' of blastin' me
Haterz speakin' my name in Blasphemy
Gotta pack a gat now, Oh It's like that now
You copped P, You wanna strap now, Niggas Bein' Black now
You All Alone so whatcha Back Now
[TMR and Pikasoe Black]
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
Betta keep ya eyes open and ya hand on the chrome
[Pikasoe Black]
Niggas better pay attention cuz the street got eyes
I'll be flippin' on your fam, and defeatin' your guys
You can't see the enemy, They dun bleached ya eyes
Reached yo pies, Touched you when you creeped on by
Niggas know around the corner is the seat that lies
Never go that route, why, cause we too wise
Brooklyn-I, 420 or 325, SLE, A-Class, What we tryin' to drive
Niggas strive for a mil, I want four point five
If you ride like I'm real than you walk them lines
New York Unkind, The fake niggas go and tell the jake niggas
Hit you for your do, and leave you in the lake nigga
You all alone in the streets, Better keep ya eyes open for these creeps
Thuggin', Sunk low in the Jeep Truck, and release slugs
Police Duckin', Lift you off your feet for frontin'
Jus peep streets is deep, End of Discussion
[TMR and Pikasoe Black]
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
You All Alone in these streets
You All Alone, You All Alone
Betta keep ya eyes open and ya hand on the chrome







[Verse 1]
What it, what it
What it is cu cuz
What it is fo folk
I’ve been watchin’ you from over here on the other side of the club lookin’ at’chu all through that
Smoke
What do you drank, -drank
Little Patron, a little Grey Goose, a little Hennessey
But when I see you, all my girls like “What do you—
“Thank?”
“How do you feel,-feel?”
Butterflies running all up and down my chest but he’s so hot to death and I’m Sophia Fresh and that’s
Real
What am I suppose to do?
Get up and walk to a th-iz-ug and act like I'm innocent and cute?
Nah, I’mma step like
[Hook]
Yeah (What it is, nigga?)
Have you ever been down wit a female from the hood?
She can really make you feel good an’ make you sang
Hop in a Maserati, baby boy, we can roll
All I really wanna know is…
What it is (Uh huh)
What it is (Uh huh)
What it is (Uh huh)
What it is (Hey-ey)
What it is
What it is (Hey-ey)
What it is
What it is (Huh-uh-uh-uh)
[Verse 2]
Tch, whatever nigga
Huh, check this out
What it is pi-pimp
What it is du-dude?
I see you in your C-A-D-I
Double L while the A-C blows so
Cule
How does it ride –ride?
24s on the back wit a fifth 24 on the back
Twenty hits on a lac truck back up to a
Glide
Super high from the ground
I feel like I’m an alien in a UFO
Somebody better beam me up back on down
What else am I suppose to do?
Get up an’ walk to a th-iz-ug and act like im innocent and cute?
Haha, I’mma step like…
[Verse 3: Kanye West]
Uh, I don’t need no little ass
I need a ghetto ass
Girl wit a little car that can make it cross town wit just a little gas
I know when we first met
You was a little gassed
But you wanna keep your swag
So you was holdin’ back
Yo’ little brotha luv me
He say “Yeezy got some fresh clothes”
Yo’ grandmother luv me ‘cause I always dress in dress clothes
I can switch yo’ dress code
Change your life like “Presto”
I am like that aston martin engine, you just press “Go”
Why –why you ac’in’ like you ain’t impressed for?
Oh, see, why you listen to the press, though?
I-I-ain’t fitta ‘splain my life up on no Larry King ‘cause when I show her that thing, she say
“That explains everything”
“Everything”
“That just changed everything”
Yeezy on her name ring
Yeezy with her chain bling
Yea I throw Barack up, but
Baby, you get my vote
Love a ghetto girl
With more ass than the models
(See-see-see I did the-the skrewed up shit myself)
(I didn’t put no effect, no – you know)





Turn me up, turn me up loud too
Loud, l-l-l-l-loud yeah yeah
[Hook]
I just want you to know 3x
This boy here finna blow
Southside up in here, Westside up in here
Eastside up in here, throw your hands in the air
I just want you to know 3x
This boy here finna blow
Southside up in here, Westside up in here
Eastside up in here, throw your hands in the air
[Verse 1: Kanye West]
Kanye the best in the game, now we got that, that thing clear
Kanye West is the name, Southside up in here
Y'all niggas stole the soul, y'all niggas all some clones
Y'all need to change y'all tone, nigga I control the gold
Motherfucker close the do', light the weed and let the douja blow
Why you keep bawlin' though girl, you ain't been around niggas before?
Why my chain rosey gold, why my wrist below zero
How the hell I know B-Lo, why them girls tell you no means no
No means no just as sure as green means go, green means paper
Dream team, caper we see haters like shorty on the 'Sixth Sense'
Y'all finna' see some dead people, come through ya block and air people
My people ain't scared people, only FIG-I-AIR people


[Sample]
I'm gonna have a sweet life, sweetest life you've ever seen
And when the day is over, gonna go to sleep and I feel the greed
Momma can you hear me?
[Verse 1 - Juice]
I'm pushin a Cadillac man, it's black man
And I'm a black man, in a Cadillac man, see what I'm saying is?
Ain't no diamonds in the back, diamonds on my neck
D-Diamonds on my neck, D-Diamonds on my neck
I'm so fresh, so clean, edge sharper than a ginsu
Look at the soul of my Air 1's, see what I been through
Been through the struggle and drove through the fire
Kanye on the track, that nigga spittin' through the wire
I spit that pain rap, every chorus need a choir
Like feinds need suppliers, like Daytons to the wires
I'm rollin', rollin'
Turn my music up and keep rollin', rollin'..
[Hook - The Game]
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
Turn the music up, we just rollin', rollin'
Let the windows down and keep rollin', rollin'
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
Picture me rollin', rollin'
System on blast, just rollin', rollin'
Foot on the gas, we just rollin', rollin'
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
[Verse 2 - Juice]
I got my back on the wall like a hustler
Smokin' like a muffler, waiting for the customers
I got that that weight, that they push up state for
Feinds can't wait for, enemies hate for
Me to make that cake or drive through the state for
P-H-X, A-Z is what I came for
Rock my chain for, hooked up with Game for
Headed to the booth, shotgun in the Range for
I could make change more, and my shit bang more
Bitches screamin' my name when I open them Range doors
When my ribs was touchin', ain't nobody know 'em
So tell them niggas, picture me rollin'
[Hook - The Game]
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
Turn the music up, we just rollin', rollin'
Let the windows down and keep rollin', rollin'
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
Picture me rollin', rollin'
System on blast, just rollin', rollin'
Foot on the gas, we just rollin', rollin'
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
[Verse 3 - Juice]
Homie I'm just rollin', rollin', thinkin' 'bout the past
They said I would never last, so even if you trashed
Keep rollin', rollin', and I got a stashspot
Niggas is killin' so my stashspot, got a stashspot
Roll up the window, roll up the endo
Blow it out the sunroof, share it with my kinfolk
My niggas in the grave, my niggas behind bars
Man, there's too many of ya'll, but ya'll know who you are
Gangbangers in the hood, and they shootin' like stars
And the gangbangers I know don't wear shoes with the stars
They tie bandanas, and they shootin' out cars
So I had to turn it around, and start shootin' out bars
[Hook - The Game]
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
Turn the music up, we just rollin', rollin'
Let the windows down and keep rollin', rollin'
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
Picture me rollin', rollin'
System on blast, just rollin', rollin'
Foot on the gas, we just rollin', rollin'
Man, we just rollin', rollin'
[Outro - Juice]
Yeah, it's a Blackwall Street recording
We got the Juice now niggas
Haha, gone










