Richard Serra’s sculpture Sequence makes clear the otherworldliness of its presence upon first sight. It stands autonomously, starkly separated from the world around it by virtue of its unmistakable exterior: tall, rusted red slabs of slanted steel, with graceful curves that ultimately form what look to be two intertwined circles. It conceals its interior, evoking a sense of mystery while simultaneously inviting us in with a flirtatious opening in the smooth surface. Upon stepping in we are met with an inner circular space, and a narrow path that trails off around a bend, holding the promise of unraveling the mystery of its architectural arrangement. Yet the opposite occurs: as one continues down the sinuous path, the sense of grounding gradually evaporates, and a slow-creeping disorientation inspired by the concealment of the museum grounds around it begins to blossom, further emphasized by the slant of the walls subtly moving inwards and outwards. As the seemingly never-ending walk continues, one slowly begins giving in to the domain of the work itself, the autonomy we possess outside dwindles as we activate the piece with our existence within it. It comes into being as the commander of both our direction and our sense of place, leaving us as exiguous observers, surrendered to its power, in a sort wide-eyed, hushed admiration reminiscent of the sentiment inspired by existing inside a cathedral. Opting for something other than high vaulted ceilings and stained glass, Serra creates a sense of divine space in this piece by pushing the boundaries of how the sculpture interacts with the viewer, elevating its role to more than just a space for us to exist in, to that of a godlike dictator of our experience within it.
Its interaction with the earth is first and foremost. There are no bolts that ground the piece, no visible method of support other than its own almost supernatural ability to remain standing by virtue of its perfectly achieved balance. This gives the sculpture a sense of independence from the rest of the world, a self-containment and sovereignty that frees it from relying on anything else but its own mysterious anatomy. Its outward slant helps further this notion, it makes it seem to stand in a way that defies the natural laws of gravity. Despite its two hundred tons, the piece boasts a strong sense of levity, as if it could raise itself from the ground at any given moment. The curves of the steel that govern the inner path however, complicate this idea. Throughout the trajectory, the walls oscillate between enclosing our bodies in a small confined space and releasing us back into the sky above. Leaving us to experience a limbo-like middle-ground between claustrophobia and exhilaration, the piece consolidates being coddling and menacing contemporaneously. The seemingly gravity-defying inclines it possesses inspires fear of the piece toppling over at any moment, and yet its silent gracefulness, combined with its rich color and loud stillness invite us to consciously overcome this notion and surrender ourselves to its command. Sequence dominates our person and lets us know that that is the case, we become docile bodies and it possessor of our fate, leading us blindly to a destination we are yet to behold, once again echoing the tensions at play in a religious space. 
The inability to fully comprehend the work’s anatomy also plays into its elevation to an otherworldly state. Its entire geography is incredibly hard to make sense of from within or beside, it almost demands remaining a mystery, (although it is interesting to note that the work can be understood architecturally from the balcony of the Cantor, that is to say, from an elevated state of being. Coincidence? I think not.) this characteristic of the work plays into our surrendering to it, and the power of command that it exudes. A majestic labyrinth of sorts, it retains a mysticism with its mystery that keeps it from falling into the category of being a work that can simply be understood and assimilated.
Its placement in the outdoors at the Cantor further activates the palpable presence of the work as an entity in itself. The changing weather constantly ascribes different moods to the piece, it becomes bright and bold in the midday sun, with the high contrast between light and shadow encouraging the reception of its twofold character. It turns tender with an overcast sky, its color subduing and shadows no longer playing into the shape it possesses, the distinction between spaces of enclosement and liberation blurring, its nuances quieting down. At night the work becomes almost sinister, its passageways absorbing the darkness in connotation, filling the act of walking through with ominous undertones. The natural lighting also plays an essential role in creating an atmosphere of transcendence and otherworldliness within the Serra. The cyclical nature of the rise and fall of the sun accompanies the circularity of its form, these two qualities coming together to inspire a feeling of infinity with the work, of constantly changing states of being that have no beginning or end, and have the power to create a different experience every moment spent within its domain. 
The path finally ends, giving way to the works inner circular space. Our autonomy is given back to us, but only to a certain extent, as we are now free to roam as we please, albeit within inner confines of the sculpture. There is a sense of sublimity when reaching this state: perhaps partly due to the feeling of slow-building expectation the path leading up to this point inspires, perhaps due to the mindset imposed by said path, which seems to prime our perception to openly receive. We are currently surrounded by slanted steel, engulfed yet liberated, the sky beautifully framed by the rusted red.  The Museum can now be seen peeping from the side, a reminder that the rest of the world is still very much there. A sense of loss is felt, the stark ending of the guiding nature of the path is present now, and the emptiness of the space harmonizes with the lack of direction. We are left to reflect on the mixture of emotion that end of direction evokes: perhaps disillusionment at the lack of a tangible reward other than yet another circular space. Perhaps relief, being released from the inescapable whim of the path just surpassed, or hopefully, the desire for more. The yearning go back and experience its commanding presence once again, and if that is the case, the good news is that it its trajectory works both ways. 

